CHAPTER ONE




THE WORST BIRTH­DAY



N ot for the first time, an ar­gu­ment had bro­ken out over break­fast at num­ber four, Priv­et Drive. Mr. Ver­non Durs­ley had been wo­ken in the ear­ly hours of the morn­ing by a loud, hoot­ing noise from his nephew Har­ry’s room.

“Third time this week!” he roared across the ta­ble. “If you can’t con­trol that owl, it’ll have to go!”

Har­ry tried, yet again, to ex­plain.

“She’s bored,” he said. “She’s used to fly­ing around out­side. If I could just let her out at night —”

“Do I look stupid?” snarled Un­cle Ver­non, a bit of fried egg dan­gling from his bushy mus­tache. “I know what’ll hap­pen if that owl’s let out.”

He ex­changed dark looks with his wife, Petu­nia.

Har­ry tried to ar­gue back but his words were drowned by a long, loud belch from the Durs­leys’ son, Dud­ley.

“I want more ba­con.”

“There’s more in the fry­ing pan, swee­tums,” said Aunt Petu­nia, turn­ing misty eyes on her mas­sive son. “We must build you up while we’ve got the chance.…I don’t like the sound of that school food.…”

“Non­sense, Petu­nia, I nev­er went hun­gry when I was at Smelt­ings,” said Un­cle Ver­non hearti­ly. “Dud­ley gets enough, don’t you, son?”

Dud­ley, who was so large his bot­tom drooped over ei­ther side of the kitchen chair, grinned and turned to Har­ry.

“Pass the fry­ing pan.”

“You’ve for­got­ten the mag­ic word,” said Har­ry ir­ri­ta­bly.

The ef­fect of this sim­ple sen­tence on the rest of the fam­ily was in­cred­ible: Dud­ley gasped and fell off his chair with a crash that shook the whole kitchen; Mrs. Durs­ley gave a small scream and clapped her hands to her mouth; Mr. Durs­ley jumped to his feet, veins throb­bing in his tem­ples.

“I meant ‘please’!” said Har­ry quick­ly. “I didn’t mean —”

“WHAT HAVE I TOLD YOU,” thun­dered his un­cle, spray­ing spit over the ta­ble, “ABOUT SAY­ING THE ‘M’ WORD IN OUR HOUSE?”

“But I —”

“HOW DARE YOU THREAT­EN DUD­LEY!” roared Un­cle Ver­non, pound­ing the ta­ble with his fist.

“I just —”

“I WARNED YOU! I WILL NOT TOL­ER­ATE MEN­TION OF YOUR AB­NOR­MAL­ITY UN­DER THIS ROOF!”

Har­ry stared from his pur­ple-​faced un­cle to his pale aunt, who was try­ing to heave Dud­ley to his feet.

“All right,” said Har­ry, “all right…”

Un­cle Ver­non sat back down, breath­ing like a wind­ed rhinoceros and watch­ing Har­ry close­ly out of the cor­ners of his small, sharp eyes.

Ev­er since Har­ry had come home for the sum­mer hol­idays, Un­cle Ver­non had been treat­ing him like a bomb that might go off at any mo­ment, be­cause Har­ry Pot­ter wasn’t a nor­mal boy. As a mat­ter of fact, he was as not nor­mal as it is pos­si­ble to be.

Har­ry Pot­ter was a wiz­ard — a wiz­ard fresh from his first year at Hog­warts School of Witchcraft and Wiz­ardry. And if the Durs­leys were un­hap­py to have him back for the hol­idays, it was noth­ing to how Har­ry felt.

He missed Hog­warts so much it was like hav­ing a con­stant stom­achache. He missed the cas­tle, with its se­cret pas­sage­ways and ghosts, his class­es (though per­haps not Snape, the Po­tions mas­ter), the mail ar­riv­ing by owl, eat­ing ban­quets in the Great Hall, sleep­ing in his four-​poster bed in the tow­er dor­mi­to­ry, vis­it­ing the game­keep­er, Ha­grid, in his cab­in next to the For­bid­den For­est in the grounds, and, es­pe­cial­ly, Quid­ditch, the most pop­ular sport in the wiz­ard­ing world (six tall goal posts, four fly­ing balls, and four­teen play­ers on broom­sticks).

All Har­ry’s spell­books, his wand, robes, caul­dron, and top-​of-​the-​line Nim­bus Two Thou­sand broom­stick had been locked in a cup­board un­der the stairs by Un­cle Ver­non the in­stant Har­ry had come home. What did the Durs­leys care if Har­ry lost his place on the House Quid­ditch team be­cause he hadn’t prac­ticed all sum­mer? What was it to the Durs­leys if Har­ry went back to school with­out any of his home­work done? The Durs­leys were what wiz­ards called Mug­gles (not a drop of mag­ical blood in their veins), and as far as they were con­cerned, hav­ing a wiz­ard in the fam­ily was a mat­ter of deep­est shame. Un­cle Ver­non had even pad­locked Har­ry’s owl, Hed­wig, in­side her cage, to stop her from car­ry­ing mes­sages to any­one in the wiz­ard­ing world.

Har­ry looked noth­ing like the rest of the fam­ily. Un­cle Ver­non was large and neck­less, with an enor­mous black mus­tache; Aunt Petu­nia was horse-​faced and bony; Dud­ley was blond, pink, and porky. Har­ry, on the oth­er hand, was small and skin­ny, with bril­liant green eyes and jet-​black hair that was al­ways un­tidy. He wore round glass­es, and on his fore­head was a thin, light­ning-​shaped scar.

It was this scar that made Har­ry so par­tic­ular­ly un­usu­al, even for a wiz­ard. This scar was the on­ly hint of Har­ry’s very mys­te­ri­ous past, of the rea­son he had been left on the Durs­leys’ doorstep eleven years be­fore.

At the age of one year old, Har­ry had some­how sur­vived a curse from the great­est Dark sor­cer­er of all time, Lord Volde­mort, whose name most witch­es and wiz­ards still feared to speak. Har­ry’s par­ents had died in Volde­mort’s at­tack, but Har­ry had es­caped with his light­ning scar, and some­how — no­body un­der­stood why —Volde­mort’s pow­ers had been de­stroyed the in­stant he had failed to kill Har­ry.

So Har­ry had been brought up by his dead moth­er’s sis­ter and her hus­band. He had spent ten years with the Durs­leys, nev­er un­der­stand­ing why he kept mak­ing odd things hap­pen with­out mean­ing to, be­liev­ing the Durs­leys’ sto­ry that he had got his scar in the car crash that had killed his par­ents.

And then, ex­act­ly a year ago, Hog­warts had writ­ten to Har­ry, and the whole sto­ry had come out. Har­ry had tak­en up his place at wiz­ard school, where he and his scar were fa­mous…but now the school year was over, and he was back with the Durs­leys for the sum­mer, back to be­ing treat­ed like a dog that had rolled in some­thing smelly.

The Durs­leys hadn’t even re­mem­bered that to­day hap­pened to be Har­ry’s twelfth birth­day. Of course, his hopes hadn’t been high; they’d nev­er giv­en him a re­al present, let alone a cake — but to ig­nore it com­plete­ly…

At that mo­ment, Un­cle Ver­non cleared his throat im­por­tant­ly and said, “Now, as we all know, to­day is a very im­por­tant day.”

Har­ry looked up, hard­ly dar­ing to be­lieve it.

“This could well be the day I make the biggest deal of my ca­reer,” said Un­cle Ver­non.

Har­ry went back to his toast. Of course, he thought bit­ter­ly, Un­cle Ver­non was talk­ing about the stupid din­ner par­ty. He’d been talk­ing of noth­ing else for two weeks. Some rich builder and his wife were com­ing to din­ner and Un­cle Ver­non was hop­ing to get a huge or­der from him (Un­cle Ver­non’s com­pa­ny made drills).

“I think we should run through the sched­ule one more time,” said Un­cle Ver­non. “We should all be in po­si­tion at eight o’clock. Petu­nia, you will be —?”

“In the lounge,” said Aunt Petu­nia prompt­ly, “wait­ing to wel­come them gra­cious­ly to our home.”

“Good, good. And Dud­ley?”

“I’ll be wait­ing to open the door.” Dud­ley put on a foul, sim­per­ing smile. “May I take your coats, Mr. and Mrs. Ma­son?”

“They’ll love him!” cried Aunt Petu­nia rap­tur­ous­ly.

“Ex­cel­lent, Dud­ley,” said Un­cle Ver­non. Then he round­ed on Har­ry. “And you?”

“I’ll be in my bed­room, mak­ing no noise and pre­tend­ing I’m not there,” said Har­ry tone­less­ly.

“Ex­act­ly,” said Un­cle Ver­non nas­ti­ly. “I will lead them in­to the lounge, in­tro­duce you, Petu­nia, and pour them drinks. At eight-​fif­teen —”

“I’ll an­nounce din­ner,” said Aunt Petu­nia.

“And, Dud­ley, you’ll say —”

“May I take you through to the din­ing room, Mrs. Ma­son?” said Dud­ley, of­fer­ing his fat arm to an in­vis­ible wom­an.

“My per­fect lit­tle gen­tle­man!” sniffed Aunt Petu­nia.

“And you?” said Un­cle Ver­non vi­cious­ly to Har­ry.

“I’ll be in my room, mak­ing no noise and pre­tend­ing I’m not there,” said Har­ry dul­ly.

“Pre­cise­ly. Now, we should aim to get in a few good com­pli­ments at din­ner. Petu­nia, any ideas?”

“Ver­non tells me you’re a won­der­ful golfer, Mr. Ma­son….Do tell me where you bought your dress, Mrs. Ma­son….”

“Per­fect…Dud­ley?”

“How about —‘We had to write an es­say about our hero at school, Mr. Ma­son, and I wrote about you.’”

This was too much for both Aunt Petu­nia and Har­ry. Aunt Petu­nia burst in­to tears and hugged her son, while Har­ry ducked un­der the ta­ble so they wouldn’t see him laugh­ing.

“And you, boy?”

Har­ry fought to keep his face straight as he emerged.

“I’ll be in my room, mak­ing no noise and pre­tend­ing I’m not there,” he said.

“Too right, you will.” said Un­cle Ver­non force­ful­ly. “The Ma­sons don’t know any­thing about you and it’s go­ing to stay that way. When din­ner’s over, you take Mrs. Ma­son back to the lounge for cof­fee, Petu­nia, and I’ll bring the sub­ject around to drills. With any luck, I’ll have the deal signed and sealed be­fore the news at ten. be shop­ping for a va­ca­tion home in Ma­jor­ca this time to mor­row.”

Har­ry couldn’t feel too ex­cit­ed about this. He didn’t think the Durs­leys would like him any bet­ter in Ma­jor­ca than they did on Priv­et Drive.

“Right — I’m off in­to town to pick up the din­ner jack­ets for Dud­ley and me. And you,” he snarled at Har­ry. “You stay out of your aunt’s way while she’s clean­ing.”

Har­ry left through the back door. It was a bril­liant, sun­ny day. He crossed the lawn, slumped down on the gar­den bench, and sang un­der his breath:

“Hap­py birth­day to me…hap­py birth­day to me…”

No cards, no presents, and he would be spend­ing the evening pre­tend­ing not to ex­ist. He gazed mis­er­ably in­to the hedge. He had nev­er felt so lone­ly. More than any­thing else at Hog­warts, more even than play­ing Quid­ditch, Har­ry missed his best friends, Ron Weasley and Hermione Granger. They, how­ev­er, didn’t seem to be miss­ing him at all. Nei­ther of them had writ­ten to him all sum­mer, even though Ron had said he was go­ing to ask Har­ry to come and stay.

Count­less times, Har­ry had been on the point of un­lock­ing Hed­wig’s cage by mag­ic and send­ing her to Ron and Hermione with a let­ter, but it wasn’t worth the risk. Un­der­age wiz­ards weren’t al­lowed to use mag­ic out­side of school. Har­ry hadn’t told the Durs­leys this; he knew it was on­ly their ter­ror that he might turn them all in­to dung bee­tles that stopped them from lock­ing him in the cup­board un­der the stairs with his wand and broom­stick. For the first cou­ple of weeks back, Har­ry had en­joyed mut­ter­ing non­sense words un­der his breath and watch­ing Dud­ley tear­ing out of the room as fast as his fat legs would car­ry him. But the long si­lence from Ron and Hermione had made Har­ry feel so cut off from the mag­ical world that even taunt­ing Dud­ley had lost its ap­peal — and now Ron and Hermione had for­got­ten his birth­day.

What wouldn’t he give now for a mes­sage from Hog­warts? From any witch or wiz­ard? He’d al­most be glad of a sight of his arch­en­emy, Dra­co Mal­foy, just to be sure it hadn’t all been a dream.…

Not that his whole year at Hog­warts had been fun. At the very end of last term, Har­ry had come face-​to-​face with none oth­er than Lord Volde­mort him­self. Volde­mort might be a ru­in of his for­mer self, but he was still ter­ri­fy­ing, still cun­ning, still de­ter­mined to re­gain pow­er. Har­ry had slipped through Volde­mort’s clutch­es for a sec­ond time, but it had been a nar­row es­cape, and even now, weeks lat­er, Har­ry kept wak­ing in the night, drenched in cold sweat, won­der­ing where Volde­mort was now, re­mem­ber­ing his livid face, his wide, mad eyes —

Har­ry sud­den­ly sat bolt up­right on the gar­den bench. He had been star­ing ab­sent-​mind­ed­ly in­to the hedge —and the hedge was star­ing back. Two enor­mous green eyes had ap­peared among the leaves.

Har­ry jumped to his feet just as a jeer­ing voice float­ed across the lawn.

“I know what day it is,” sang Dud­ley, wad­dling to­ward him.

The huge eyes blinked and van­ished.

“What?” said Har­ry, not tak­ing his eyes off the spot where they had been.

“I know what day it is,” Dud­ley re­peat­ed, com­ing right up to him.

“Well done,” said Har­ry. “So you’ve fi­nal­ly learned the days of the week.”

“To­day’s your birth­day,” sneered Dud­ley. “How come you haven’t got any cards? Haven’t you even got friends at that freak place?”

“Bet­ter not let your mum hear you talk­ing about my school,” said Har­ry cool­ly.

Dud­ley hitched up his trousers, which were slip­ping down his fat bot­tom.

“Why’re you star­ing at the hedge?” he said sus­pi­cious­ly.

“I’m try­ing to de­cide what would be the best spell to set it on fire,” said Har­ry.

Dud­ley stum­bled back­ward at once, a look of pan­ic on his fat face.

“You c-​can’t — Dad told you you’re not to do m-​mag­ic — he said he’ll chuck you out of the house — and you haven’t got any­where else to go — you haven’t got any friends to take you —”

“Jig­gery pok­ery!” said Har­ry in a fierce voice. “Ho­cus pocus — squig­gly wig­gly —”

“MUU­UU­UUM!” howled Dud­ley, trip­ping over his feet as he dashed back to­ward the house. “MUU­UUM! He’s do­ing you know what!”

Har­ry paid dear­ly for his mo­ment of fun. As nei­ther Dud­ley nor the hedge was in any way hurt, Aunt Petu­nia knew he hadn’t re­al­ly done mag­ic, but he still had to duck as she aimed a heavy blow at his head with the soapy fry­ing pan. Then she gave him work to do, with the promise he wouldn’t eat again un­til he’d fin­ished.

While Dud­ley lolled around watch­ing and eat­ing ice cream, Har­ry cleaned the win­dows, washed the car, mowed the lawn, trimmed the flowerbeds, pruned and wa­tered the ros­es, and re­paint­ed the gar­den bench. The sun blazed over­head, burn­ing the back of his neck. Har­ry knew he shouldn’t have risen to Dud­ley’s bait, but Dud­ley had said the very thing Har­ry had been think­ing him­self…maybe he didn’t have any friends at Hog­warts.…

Wish they could see fa­mous Har­ry Pot­ter now, he thought sav­age­ly as he spread ma­nure on the flow­er beds, his back aching, sweat run­ning down his face.

It was half past sev­en in the evening when at last, ex­haust­ed, he heard Aunt Petu­nia call­ing him.

“Get in here! And walk on the news­pa­per!”

Har­ry moved glad­ly in­to the shade of the gleam­ing kitchen. On top of the fridge stood tonight’s pud­ding: a huge mound of whipped cream and sug­ared vi­olets. A loin of roast pork was siz­zling in the oven.

“Eat quick­ly! The Ma­sons will be here soon!” snapped Aunt Petu­nia, point­ing to two slices of bread and a lump of cheese on the kitchen ta­ble. She was al­ready wear­ing a salmon-​pink cock­tail dress.

Har­ry washed his hands and bolt­ed down his piti­ful sup­per. The mo­ment he had fin­ished, Aunt Petu­nia whisked away his plate. “Up­stairs! Hur­ry!”

As he passed the door to the liv­ing room, Har­ry caught a glimpse of Un­cle Ver­non and Dud­ley in bow ties and din­ner jack­ets. He had on­ly just reached the up­stairs land­ing when the door bell rang and Un­cle Ver­non’s fu­ri­ous face ap­peared at the foot of the stairs.

“Re­mem­ber, boy — one sound —”

Har­ry crossed to his bed­room on tip­toe slipped in­side, closed the door, and turned to col­lapse on his bed. The trou­ble was, there was al­ready some­one sit­ting on it.





HP 2 - Harry Potter and The Chamber of Secrets





CHAPTER TWO




DOB­BY’S WARN­ING



H ar­ry man­aged not to shout out, but it was a close thing. The lit­tle crea­ture on the bed had large, bat-​like ears and bulging green eyes the size of ten­nis balls. Har­ry knew in­stant­ly that this was what had been watch­ing him out of the gar­den hedge that morn­ing.

As they stared at each oth­er, Har­ry heard Dud­ley’s voice from the hall.

“May I take your coats, Mr. and Mrs. Ma­son?”

The crea­ture slipped off the bed and bowed so low that the end of its long, thin nose touched the car­pet. Har­ry no­ticed that it was wear­ing what looked like an old pil­low­case, with rips for arm- and leg-​holes.

“Er — hel­lo,” said Har­ry ner­vous­ly.

“Har­ry Pot­ter!” said the crea­ture in a high-​pitched voice Har­ry was sure would car­ry down the stairs. “So long has Dob­by want­ed to meet you, sir…Such an hon­or it is.…”

“Th-​thank you,” said Har­ry, edg­ing along the wall and sink­ing in­to his desk chair, next to Hed­wig, who was asleep in her large cage. He want­ed to ask, “What are you?” but thought it would sound too rude, so in­stead he said, “Who are you?”

“Dob­by, sir. Just Dob­by. Dob­by the house-​elf,” said the crea­ture.

“Oh — re­al­ly?” said Har­ry. “Er — I don’t want to be rude or any­thing, but — this isn’t a great time for me to have a house-​elf in my bed­room.”

Aunt Petu­nias high, false laugh sound­ed from the liv­ing room. The elf hung his head.

“Not that I’m not pleased to meet you,” said Har­ry quick­ly, “but, er, is there any par­tic­ular rea­son you’re here?”

“Oh, yes, sir,” said Dob­by earnest­ly. “Dob­by has come to tell you, sir…it is dif­fi­cult, sir…Dob­by won­ders where to be­gin.…”

“Sit down,” said Har­ry po­lite­ly, point­ing at the bed.

To his hor­ror, the elf burst in­to tears — very noisy tears.

“S-​sit down!” he wailed. “Nev­er …nev­er ev­er…”

Har­ry thought he heard the voic­es down­stairs fal­ter.

“I’m sor­ry,” he whis­pered, “I didn’t mean to of­fend you or any­thing —”

“Of­fend Dob­by!” choked the elf. “Dob­by has nev­er been asked to sit down by a wiz­ard — like an equal —”

Har­ry, try­ing to say “Shh!” and look com­fort­ing at the same time, ush­ered Dob­by back on­to the bed where he sat hic­cough­ing, look­ing like a large and very ug­ly doll. At last he man­aged to con­trol him­self, and sat with his great eyes fixed on Har­ry in an ex­pres­sion of wa­tery ado­ra­tion.

“You can’t have met many de­cent wiz­ards,” said Har­ry, try­ing to cheer him up.

Dob­by shook his head. Then, with­out warn­ing, he leapt up and start­ed bang­ing his head fu­ri­ous­ly on the win­dow, shout­ing, “Bad Dob­by! Bad Dob­by!”

“Don’t — what are you do­ing?” Har­ry hissed, spring­ing up and pulling Dob­by back on­to the bed — Hed­wig had wo­ken up with a par­tic­ular­ly loud screech and was beat­ing her wings wild­ly against the bars of her cage.

“Dob­by had to pun­ish him­self, sir,” said the elf, who had gone slight­ly cross-​eyed. “Dob­by al­most spoke ill of his fam­ily, sir.…”

“Your fam­ily?”

“The wiz­ard fam­ily Dob­by serves, sir.…Dob­by is a house-​elf — bound to serve one house and one fam­ily for­ev­er.…”

“Do they know you’re here?” asked Har­ry cu­ri­ous­ly.

Dob­by shud­dered.

“Oh, no, sir, no…Dob­by will have to pun­ish him­self most grievous­ly for com­ing to see you, sir. Dob­by will have to shut his ears in the oven door for this. If they ev­er knew, sir —”

“But won’t they no­tice if you shut your ears in the oven door?”

“Dob­by doubts it, sir. Dob­by is al­ways hav­ing to pun­ish him­self for some­thing, sir. They lets Dob­by get on with it, sir. Some­times they re­minds me to do ex­tra pun­ish­ments.…”

“But why don’t you leave? Es­cape?”

“A house-​elf must be set free, sir. And the fam­ily will nev­er set Dob­by free…Dob­by will serve the fam­ily un­til he dies, sir.…”

Har­ry stared.

“And I thought I had it bad stay­ing here for an­oth­er four weeks,” he said. “This makes the Durs­leys sound al­most hu­man. Can’t any­one help you? Can’t I?”

Al­most at once, Har­ry wished he hadn’t spo­ken. Dob­by dis­solved again in­to wails of grat­itude.

“Please,” Har­ry whis­pered fran­ti­cal­ly, “please be qui­et. If the Durs­leys hear any­thing, if they know you’re here —”

“Har­ry Pot­ter asks if he can help Dob­by…Dob­by has heard of your great­ness, sir, but of your good­ness, Dob­by nev­er knew.…”

Har­ry, who was feel­ing dis­tinct­ly hot in the face, said, “What­ev­er you’ve heard about my great­ness is a load of rub­bish. I’m not even top of my year at Hog­warts; that’s Hermione, she —”

But he stopped quick­ly, be­cause think­ing about Hermione was painful.

“Har­ry Pot­ter is hum­ble and mod­est,” said Dob­by rev­er­ent­ly, his orb-​like eyes aglow. “Har­ry Pot­ter speaks not of his tri­umph over He-​Who-​Must-​Not-​Be-​Named —”

“Volde­mort?” said Har­ry.

Dob­by clapped his hands over his bat ears and moaned, “Ah, speak not the name, sir! Speak not the name!”

“Sor­ry,” said Har­ry quick­ly. “I know lots of peo­ple don’t like it. My friend Ron —”

He stopped again. Think­ing about Ron was painful, too.

Dob­by leaned to­ward Har­ry, his eyes wide as head­lights.

“Dob­by heard tell,” he said hoarse­ly, “that Har­ry Pot­ter met the Dark Lord for a sec­ond time just weeks ago…that Har­ry Pot­ter es­caped yet again.”

Har­ry nod­ded and Dob­by’s eyes sud­den­ly shone with tears.

“Ah, sir,” he gasped, dab­bing his face with a cor­ner of the grub­by pil­low­case he was wear­ing. “Har­ry Pot­ter is valiant and bold! He has braved so many dan­gers al­ready! But Dob­by has come to pro­tect Har­ry Pot­ter, to warn him, even if he does have to shut his ears in the oven door lat­er.…Har­ry Pot­ter must not go back to Hog­warts.”

There was a si­lence bro­ken on­ly by the chink of knives and forks from down­stairs and the dis­tant rum­ble of Un­cle Ver­non’s voice.

“W-​what?” Har­ry stam­mered. “But I’ve got to go back — term starts on Septem­ber first. It’s all that’s keep­ing me go­ing. You don’t know what it’s like here. I don’t be­long here. I be­long in your world — at Hog­warts.”

“No, no, no,” squeaked Dob­by, shak­ing his head so hard his ears flapped. “Har­ry Pot­ter must stay where he is safe. He is too great, too good, to lose. If Har­ry Pot­ter goes back to Hog­warts, he will be in mor­tal dan­ger.”

“Why?” said Har­ry in sur­prise.

“There is a plot, Har­ry Pot­ter. A plot to make most ter­ri­ble things hap­pen at Hog­warts School of Witchcraft and Wiz­ardry this year,” whis­pered Dob­by, sud­den­ly trem­bling all over. “Dob­by has known it for months, sir. Har­ry Pot­ter must not put him­self in per­il. He is too im­por­tant, sir!”

“What ter­ri­ble things?” said Har­ry at once. “Who’s plot­ting them?”

Dob­by made a fun­ny chok­ing noise and then banged his head fran­ti­cal­ly against the wall.

“All right!” cried Har­ry, grab­bing the elf’s arm to stop him. “You can’t tell me. I un­der­stand. But why are you warn­ing me?” A sud­den, un­pleas­ant thought struck him. “Hang on — this hasn’t got any­thing to do with Vol- — sor­ry — with You-​Know-​Who, has it? You could just shake or nod,” he added hasti­ly as Dob­by’s head tilt­ed wor­ry­ing­ly close to the wall again.

Slow­ly, Dob­by shook his head.

“Not — not He-​Who-​Must-​Not-​Be-​Named, sir —”

But Dob­by’s eyes were wide and he seemed to be try­ing to give Har­ry a hint. Har­ry, how­ev­er, was com­plete­ly lost.

“He hasn’t got a broth­er, has he?”

Dob­by shook his head, his eyes wider than ev­er.

“Well then, I can’t think who else would have a chance of mak­ing hor­ri­ble things hap­pen at Hog­warts,” said Har­ry. “I mean, there’s Dum­ble­dore, for one thing — you know who Dum­ble­dore is, don’t you?”

Dob­by bowed his head.

“Al­bus Dum­ble­dore is the great­est head­mas­ter Hog­warts has ev­er had. Dob­by knows it, sir. Dob­by has heard Dum­ble­dore’s pow­ers ri­val those of He-​Who-​Must-​Not-​Be-​Named at the height of his strength. But, sir” — Dob­by’s voice dropped to an ur­gent whis­per — “there are pow­ers Dum­ble­dore doesn’t…pow­ers no de­cent wiz­ard…”

And be­fore Har­ry could stop him, Dob­by bound­ed off the bed, seized Har­ry’s desk lamp, and start­ed beat­ing him­self around the head with ear­split­ting yelps.

A sud­den si­lence fell down­stairs. Two sec­onds lat­er Har­ry, heart thud­ding mad­ly, heard Un­cle Ver­non com­ing in­to the hall, call­ing, “Dud­ley must have left his tele­vi­sion on again, the lit­tle tyke!”

“Quick! In the clos­et!” hissed Har­ry, stuff­ing Dob­by in, shut­ting the door, and fling­ing him­self on­to the bed just as the door han­dle turned.

“What — the — dev­il — are — you — do­ing?” said Un­cle Ver­non through grit­ted teeth, his face hor­ri­bly close to Har­ry’s. “You’ve just ru­ined the punch line of my Japanese golfer joke.…One more sound and you’ll wish you’d nev­er been born, boy!”

He stomped flat-​foot­ed from the room.

Shak­ing, Har­ry let Dob­by out of the clos­et.

“See what it’s like here?” he said. “See why I’ve got to go back to Hog­warts? It’s the on­ly place I’ve got — well, I think I’ve got friends.”

“Friends who don’t even write to Har­ry Pot­ter?” said Dob­by sly­ly.

“I ex­pect they’ve just been — wait a minute,” said Har­ry, frown­ing. “How do you know my friends haven’t been writ­ing to me?”

Dob­by shuf­fled his feet.

“Har­ry Pot­ter mustn’t be an­gry with Dob­by. Dob­by did it for the best —”

“Have you been stop­ping my let­ters?”

“Dob­by has them here, sir,” said the elf. Step­ping nim­bly out of Har­ry’s reach, he pulled a thick wad of en­velopes from the in­side of the pil­low­case he was wear­ing. Har­ry could make out Hermione’s neat writ­ing, Ron’s un­tidy scrawl, and even a scrib­ble that looked as though it was from the Hog­warts game­keep­er, Ha­grid.

Dob­by blinked anx­ious­ly up at Har­ry.

“Har­ry Pot­ter mustn’t be an­gry.…Dob­by hoped…if Har­ry Pot­ter thought his friends had for­got­ten him…Har­ry Pot­ter might not want to go back to school, sir.…”

Har­ry wasn’t lis­ten­ing. He made a grab for the let­ters, but Dob­by jumped out of reach.

“Har­ry Pot­ter will have them, sir, if he gives Dob­by his word that he will not re­turn to Hog­warts. Ah, sir, this is a dan­ger you must not face! Say you won’t go back, sir!”

“No,” said Har­ry an­gri­ly. “Give me my friends’ let­ters!”

“Then Har­ry Pot­ter leaves Dob­by no choice,” said the elf sad­ly.

Be­fore Har­ry could move, Dob­by had dart­ed to the bed­room door, pulled it open, and sprint­ed down the stairs.

Mouth dry, stom­ach lurch­ing, Har­ry sprang af­ter him, try­ing not to make a sound. He jumped the last six steps, land­ing cat­like on the hall car­pet, look­ing around for Dob­by. From the din­ing room he heard Un­cle Ver­non say­ing, “…tell Petu­nia that very fun­ny sto­ry about those Amer­ican plumbers, Mr. Ma­son. She’s been dy­ing to hear…”

Har­ry ran up the hall in­to the kitchen and felt his stom­ach dis­ap­pear.

Aunt Petu­nia’s mas­ter­piece of a pud­ding, the moun­tain of cream and sug­ared vi­olets, was float­ing up near the ceil­ing. On top of a cup­board in the cor­ner crouched Dob­by.

“No,” croaked Har­ry. “Please…they’ll kill me.…”

“Har­ry Pot­ter must say he’s not go­ing back to school —”

“Dob­by…please…”

“Say it, sir —”

“I can’t —”

Dob­by gave him a trag­ic look.

“Then Dob­by must do it, sir, for Har­ry Pot­ter’s own good.”

The pud­ding fell to the floor with a heart-​stop­ping crash. Cream splat­tered the win­dows and walls as the dish shat­tered. With a crack like a whip, Dob­by van­ished.

There were screams from the din­ing room and Un­cle Ver­non burst in­to the kitchen to find Har­ry, rigid with shock, cov­ered from head to foot in Aunt Petu­nia’s pud­ding.

At first, it looked as though Un­cle Ver­non would man­age to gloss the whole thing over. (“Just our nephew —very dis­turbed — meet­ing strangers up­sets him, so we kept him up­stairs.…”) He shooed the shocked Ma­sons back in­to the din­ing room, promised Har­ry he would flay him to with­in an inch of his life when the Ma­sons had left, and hand­ed him a mop. Aunt Petu­nia dug some ice cream out of the freez­er and Har­ry, still shak­ing, start­ed scrub­bing the kitchen clean.

Un­cle Ver­non might still have been able to make his deal — if it hadn’t been for the owl.

Aunt Petu­nia was just pass­ing around a box of af­ter-​din­ner mints when a huge barn owl swooped through the din­ing room win­dow, dropped a let­ter on Mrs. Ma­son’s head, and swooped out again. Mrs. Ma­son screamed like a ban­shee and ran from the house shout­ing about lu­natics. Mr. Ma­son stayed just long enough to tell the Durs­leys that his wife was mor­tal­ly afraid of birds of all shapes and sizes, and to ask whether this was their idea of a joke.

Har­ry stood in the kitchen, clutch­ing the mop for sup­port, as Un­cle Ver­non ad­vanced on him, a de­mon­ic glint in his tiny eyes.

“Read it!” he hissed evil­ly, bran­dish­ing the let­ter the owl had de­liv­ered. “Go on — read it!”

Har­ry took it. It did not con­tain birth­day greet­ings.



Dear Mr. Pot­ter,

We have re­ceived in­tel­li­gence that a Hov­er Charm was used at your place of res­idence this evening at twelve min­utes past nine.

As you know, un­der­age wiz­ards are not per­mit­ted to per­form spells out­side school, and fur­ther spell­work on your part may lead to ex­pul­sion from said school. (De­cree for the Rea­son­able Re­stric­tion of Un­der­age Sor­cery, 1875, Para­graph C).

We would al­so ask you to re­mem­ber that any mag­ical ac­tiv­ity that risks no­tice by mem­bers of the non mag­ical com­mu­ni­ty (Mug­gles) is a se­ri­ous of­fense un­der sec­tion 13 of the In­ter­na­tion­al Con­fed­er­ation of War­locks’ Statute of Se­cre­cy.

En­joy your hol­idays!

Yours sin­cere­ly,



Mafal­da Hop­kirk

IM­PROP­ER USE OF MAG­IC OF­FICE

Min­istry of Mag­ic



Har­ry looked up from the let­ter and gulped.

“You didn’t tell us you weren’t al­lowed to use mag­ic out­side school,” said Un­cle Ver­non, a mad gleam danc­ing in his eyes. “For­got to men­tion it.…Slipped your mind, I dare­say.…”

He was bear­ing down on Har­ry like a great bull­dog, all his teeth bared. “Well, I’ve got news for you, boy.…I’m lock­ing you up.…You’re nev­er go­ing back to that school…nev­er…and if you try and mag­ic your­self out — they’ll ex­pel you!”

And laugh­ing like a ma­ni­ac, he dragged Har­ry back up­stairs.

Un­cle Ver­non was as bad as his word. The fol­low­ing morn­ing, he paid a man to fit bars on Har­ry’s win­dow. He him­self fit­ted a cat-​flap in the bed­room door, so that small amounts of food could be pushed in­side three times a day. They let Har­ry out to use the bath­room morn­ing and evening. Oth­er­wise, he was locked in his room around the clock.



Three days lat­er, the Durs­leys were show­ing no sign of re­lent­ing, and Har­ry couldn’t see any way out of his sit­ua­tion. He lay on his bed watch­ing the sun sink­ing be­hind the bars on the win­dow and won­dered mis­er­ably what was go­ing to hap­pen to him.

What was the good of mag­ick­ing him­self out of his room if Hog­warts would ex­pel him for do­ing it? Yet life at Priv­et Drive had reached an all-​time low. Now that the Durs­leys knew they weren’t go­ing to wake up as fruit bats, he had lost his on­ly weapon. Dob­by might have saved Har­ry from hor­ri­ble hap­pen­ings at Hog­warts, but the way things were go­ing, he’d prob­ably starve to death any­way.

The cat-​flap rat­tled and Aunt Petu­nias hand ap­peared, push­ing a bowl of canned soup in­to the room. Har­ry, whose in­sides were aching with hunger, jumped off his bed and seized it. The soup was stone-​cold, but he drank half of it in one gulp. Then he crossed the room to Hed­wig’s cage and tipped the sog­gy veg­eta­bles at the bot­tom of the bowl in­to her emp­ty food tray. She ruf­fled her feath­ers and gave him a look of deep dis­gust.

“It’s no good turn­ing your beak up at it — that’s all we’ve got,” said Har­ry grim­ly.

He put the emp­ty bowl back on the floor next to the cat-​flap and lay back down on the bed, some­how even hun­gri­er than he had been be­fore the soup.

Sup­pos­ing he was still alive in an­oth­er four weeks, hat would hap­pen if he didn’t turn up at Hog­warts? Would some­one be sent to see why he hadn’t come back? Would they be able to make the Durs­leys let him go?

The room was grow­ing dark. Ex­haust­ed, stom­ach rum­bling, mind spin­ning over the same unan­swer­able ques­tions, Har­ry fell in­to an un­easy sleep.

He dreamed that he was on show in a zoo, with a card read­ing UN­DER­AGE WIZ­ARD at­tached to his cage. Peo­ple gog­gled through the bars at him as he lay, starv­ing and weak, on a bed of straw. He saw Dob­by’s face in the crowd and shout­ed out, ask­ing for help, but Dob­by called, “Har­ry Pot­ter is safe there, sir!” and van­ished. Then the Durs­leys ap­peared and Dud­ley rat­tled the bars of the cage, laugh­ing at him.

“Stop it,” Har­ry mut­tered as the rat­tling pound­ed in his sore head. “Leave me alone…cut it out…I’m try­ing to sleep.…”

He opened his eyes. Moon­light was shin­ing through the bars on the win­dow. And some­one was gog­gling through the bars at him: a freck­le-​faced, red-​haired, long-​nosed some­one.

Ron Weasley was out­side Har­ry’s win­dow.





HP 2 - Harry Potter and The Chamber of Secrets





CHAPTER THREE




THE BUR­ROW



“ R on .” breathed Har­ry, creep­ing to the win­dow and push­ing it up so they could talk through the bars. “Ron, how did you —? What the —?”

Har­ry’s mouth fell open as the full im­pact of what he was see­ing hit him. Ron was lean­ing out of the back win­dow of an old turquoise car, which was parked in midair. Grin­ning at Har­ry from the front seats were Fred and George, Ron’s el­der twin broth­ers.

“All right, Har­ry?” asked George.

“What’s been go­ing on?” said Ron. “Why haven’t you been an­swer­ing my let­ters? I’ve asked you to stay about twelve times, and then Dad came home and said you’d got an of­fi­cial warn­ing for us­ing mag­ic in front of Mug­gles —”

“It wasn’t me — and how did he know?”

“He works for the Min­istry,” said Ron. “You know we’re not sup­posed to do spells out­side school —”

“You should talk,” said Har­ry, star­ing at the float­ing car.

“Oh, this doesn’t count,” said Ron. “We’re on­ly bor­row­ing this. It’s Dad’s, we didn’t en­chant it. But do­ing mag­ic in front of those Mug­gles you live with —”

“I told you, I didn’t — but it’ll take too long to ex­plain now — look, can you tell them at Hog­warts that the Durs­leys have locked me up and won’t let me come back, and ob­vi­ous­ly I can’t mag­ic my­self out, be­cause the Min­istry’ll think that’s the sec­ond spell I’ve done in three days, so —”

“Stop gib­ber­ing,” said Ron. “We’ve come to take you home with us.”

“But you can’t mag­ic me out ei­ther —”

“We don’t need to,” said Ron, jerk­ing his head to­ward the front seat and grin­ning. “You for­get who I’ve got with me.”

“Tie that around the bars,” said Fred, throw­ing the end of a rope to Har­ry.

“If the Durs­leys wake up, I’m dead,” said Har­ry as he tied the rope tight­ly around a bar and Fred revved up the car.

“Don’t wor­ry,” said Fred, “and stand back.”

Har­ry moved back in­to the shad­ows next to Hed­wig, who seemed to have re­al­ized how im­por­tant this was and kept still and silent. The car revved loud­er and loud­er and sud­den­ly, with a crunch­ing noise, the bars were pulled clean out of the win­dow as Fred drove straight up in the air. Har­ry ran back to the win­dow to see the bars dan­gling a few feet above the ground. Pant­ing, Ron hoist­ed them up in­to the car. Har­ry lis­tened anx­ious­ly, but there was no sound from the Durs­leys’ bed­room.

When the bars were safe­ly in the back seat with Ron, Fred re­versed as close as pos­si­ble to Har­ry’s win­dow.

“Get in,” Ron said.

“But all my Hog­warts stuff — my wand — my broom­stick —”

“Where is it?”

“Locked in the cup­board un­der the stairs, and I can’t get out of this room —”

“No prob­lem,” said George from the front pas­sen­ger seat. “Out of the way, Har­ry.”

Fred and George climbed cat­like through the win­dow in­to Har­ry’s room. You had to hand it to them, thought Har­ry, as George took an or­di­nary hair­pin from his pock­et and start­ed to pick the lock.

“A lot of wiz­ards think it’s a waste of time, know­ing this sort of Mug­gle trick,” said Fred, “but we feel they’re skills worth learn­ing, even if they are a bit slow.”

There was a small click and the door swung open.

“So — we’ll get your trunk — you grab any­thing you need from your room and hand it out to Ron,” whis­pered George.

“Watch out for the bot­tom stair — it creaks,” Har­ry whis­pered back as the twins dis­ap­peared on­to the dark land­ing.

Har­ry dashed around his room, col­lect­ing his things and pass­ing them out of the win­dow to Ron. Then he went to help Fred and George heave his trunk up the stairs. Har­ry heard Un­cle Ver­non cough.

At last, pant­ing, they reached the land­ing, then car­ried the trunk through Har­ry’s room to the open win­dow. Fred climbed back in­to the car to pull with Ron, and Har­ry and George pushed from the bed­room side. Inch by inch, the trunk slid through the win­dow.

Un­cle Ver­non coughed again.

“A bit more,” pant­ed Fred, who was pulling from in­side the car. “One good push —”

Har­ry and George threw their shoul­ders against the trunk and it slid out of the win­dow in­to the back seat of the car.

“Okay, let’s go,” George whis­pered.

But as Har­ry climbed on­to the win­dowsill there came a sud­den loud screech from be­hind him, fol­lowed im­me­di­ate­ly by the thun­der of Un­cle Ver­non’s voice.

“THAT RUD­DY OWL!”

“I’ve for­got­ten Hed­wig!”

Har­ry tore back across the room as the land­ing light clicked on — he snatched up Hed­wig’s cage, dashed to the win­dow, and passed it out to Ron. He was scram­bling back on­to the chest of draw­ers when Un­cle Ver­non ham­mered on the un­locked door — and it crashed open.

For a split sec­ond, Un­cle Ver­non stood framed in the door­way; then he let out a bel­low like an an­gry bull and dived at Har­ry, grab­bing him by the an­kle.

Ron, Fred, and George seized Har­ry’s arms and pulled as hard as they could.

“Petu­nia!” roared Un­cle Ver­non. “He’s get­ting away! HE’S GET­TING AWAY!”

But the Weasleys gave a gi­gan­tic tug and Har­ry’s leg slid out of Un­cle Ver­non’s grasp — Har­ry was in the car — he’d slammed the door shut —

“Put your foot down, Fred!” yelled Ron, and the car shot sud­den­ly to­ward the moon.

Har­ry couldn’t be­lieve it — he was free. He rolled down the win­dow, the night air whip­ping his hair, and looked back at the shrink­ing rooftops of Priv­et Drive. Un­cle Ver­non, Aunt Petu­nia, and Dud­ley were all hang­ing, dumb­struck, out of Har­ry’s win­dow.

“See you next sum­mer!” Har­ry yelled.

The Weasleys roared with laugh­ter and Har­ry set­tled back in his seat, grin­ning from ear to ear.

“Let Hed­wig out,” he told Ron. “She can fly be­hind us. She hasn’t had a chance to stretch her wings for ages.”

George hand­ed the hair­pin to Ron and, a mo­ment lat­er, Hed­wig soared joy­ful­ly out of the win­dow to glide along­side them like a ghost.

“So — what’s the sto­ry, Har­ry?” said Ron im­pa­tient­ly. “What’s been hap­pen­ing?”

Har­ry told them all about Dob­by, the warn­ing he’d giv­en Har­ry and the fi­as­co of the vi­olet pud­ding. There was a long, shocked si­lence when he had fin­ished.

“Very fishy,” said Fred fi­nal­ly.

“Def­inite­ly dodgy” agreed George. “So he wouldn’t even tell you who’s sup­posed to be plot­ting all this stuff?”

“I don’t think he could,” said Har­ry. “I told you, ev­ery time he got close to let­ting some­thing slip, he start­ed bang­ing his head against the wall.”

He saw Fred and George look at each oth­er.

“What, you think he was ly­ing to me?” said Har­ry.

“Well,” said Fred, “put it this way — house-​elves have got pow­er­ful mag­ic of their own, but they can’t usu­al­ly use it with­out their mas­ter’s per­mis­sion. I reck­on old Dob­by was sent to stop you com­ing back to Hog­warts. Some­one’s idea of a joke. Can you think of any­one at school with a grudge against you?”

“Yes,” said Har­ry and Ron to­geth­er, in­stant­ly.

“Dra­co Mal­foy,” Har­ry ex­plained. “He hates me.”

“Dra­co Mal­foy?” said George, turn­ing around. “Not Lu­cius Mal­foy’s son?”

“Must be, it’s not a very com­mon name, is it?” said Har­ry.

“I’ve heard Dad talk­ing about him,” said George. “He was a big sup­port­er of You-​Know-​Who.”

“And when You-​Know-​Who dis­ap­peared,” said Fred, cran­ing around to look at Har­ry, “Lu­cius Mal­foy came back say­ing he’d nev­er meant any of it. Load of dung — Dad reck­ons he was right in You- Know-​Who’s in­ner cir­cle.”

Har­ry had heard these ru­mors about Mal­foy’s fam­ily be­fore, and they didn’t sur­prise him at all. Mal­foy made Dud­ley Durs­ley look like a kind, thought­ful, and sen­si­tive boy.…

“I don’t know whether the Mal­foys own a house-​elf.…” said Har­ry.

“Well, who­ev­er owns him will be an old wiz­ard­ing fam­ily, and they’ll be rich,” said Fred.

“Yeah, Mum’s al­ways wish­ing we had a house-​elf to do the iron­ing,” said George. “But all we’ve got is a lousy old ghoul in the at­tic and gnomes all over the gar­den. House-​elves come with big old manors and cas­tles and places like that; you wouldn’t catch one in our house.…”

Har­ry was silent. Judg­ing by the fact that Dra­co Mal­foy usu­al­ly had the best of ev­ery­thing, his fam­ily was rolling in wiz­ard gold; he could just see Mal­foy strut­ting around a large manor house. Send­ing the fam­ily ser­vant to stop Har­ry from go­ing back to Hog­warts al­so sound­ed ex­act­ly like the sort of thing Mal­foy would do. Had Har­ry been stupid to take Dob­by se­ri­ous­ly?

“I’m glad we came to get you, any­way,” said Ron. “I was get­ting re­al­ly wor­ried when you didn’t an­swer any of my let­ters. I thought it was Er­rol’s fault at first —”

“Who’s Er­rol?”

“Our owl. He’s an­cient. It wouldn’t be the first time he’d col­lapsed on a de­liv­ery. So then I tried to bor­row Her­mes —”

“Who?”

“The owl Mum and Dad bought Per­cy when he was made pre­fect,” said Fred from the front.

“But Per­cy wouldn’t lend him to me,” said Ron. “Said he need­ed him.”

“Per­cy’s been act­ing very odd­ly this sum­mer,” said George, frown­ing. “And he has been send­ing a lot of let­ters and spend­ing a load of time shut up in his room.…I mean, there’s on­ly so many times you can pol­ish a pre­fect badge.…You’re driv­ing too far west, Fred,” he added, point­ing at a com­pass on the dash­board. Fred twid­dled the steer­ing wheel.

“So, does your dad know you’ve got the car?” said Har­ry, guess­ing the an­swer.

“Er, no,” said Ron, “he had to work tonight. Hope­ful­ly we’ll be able to get it back in the garage with­out Mum notic­ing we flew it.”

“What does your dad do at the Min­istry of Mag­ic, any­way?”

“He works in the most bor­ing de­part­ment,” said Ron. “The Mis­use of Mug­gle Ar­ti­facts Of­fice.”

“The what?”

“It’s all to do with be­witch­ing things that are Mug­gle-​made, you know, in case they end up back in a Mug­gle shop or house. Like, last year, some old witch died and her tea set was sold to an an­tiques shop. This Mug­gle wom­an bought it, took it home, and tried to serve her friends tea in it. It was a night­mare — Dad was work­ing over­time for weeks.”

“What hap­pened?”

“The teapot went berserk and squirt­ed boil­ing tea all over the place and one man end­ed up in the hos­pi­tal with the sug­ar tongs clamped to his nose. Dad was go­ing fran­tic — it’s on­ly him and an old war­lock called Perkins in the of­fice — and they had to do Mem­ory Charms and all sorts of stuff to cov­er it up —”

“But your dad — this car —”

Fred laughed. “Yeah, Dad’s crazy about ev­ery­thing to do with Mug­gles; our shed’s full of Mug­gle stuff. He takes it apart, puts spells on it, and puts it back to­geth­er again. If he raid­ed our house he’d have to put him­self un­der ar­rest. It drives Mum mad.”

“That’s the main road,” said George, peer­ing down through the wind­shield. “We’ll be there in ten min­utes.… Just as well, it’s get­ting light.…”

A faint pink­ish glow was vis­ible along the hori­zon to the east.

Fred brought the car low­er, and Har­ry saw a dark patch­work of fields and clumps of trees.

“We’re a lit­tle way out­side the vil­lage,” said George. “Ot­tery St. Catch­pole.”

Low­er and low­er went the fly­ing car. The edge of a bril­liant red sun was now gleam­ing through the trees.

“Touch­down!” said Fred as, with a slight bump, they hit the ground. They had land­ed next to a tum­ble­down garage in a small yard, and Har­ry looked out for the first time at Ron’s house.

It looked as though it had once been a large stone pig­pen, but ex­tra rooms had been added here and there un­til it was sev­er­al sto­ries high and so crooked it looked as though it were held up by mag­ic (which Har­ry re­mind­ed him­self, it prob­ably was). Four or five chim­neys were perched on top of the red roof. A lop­sid­ed sign stuck in the ground near the en­trance read, THE BUR­ROW . Around the front door lay a jum­ble of rub­ber boots and a very rusty caul­dron. Sev­er­al fat brown chick­ens were peck­ing their way around the yard.

“It’s not much,” said Ron.

“It’s won­der­ful,” said Har­ry hap­pi­ly, think­ing of Priv­et Drive.

They got out of the car.

“Now, we’ll go up­stairs re­al­ly qui­et­ly,” said Fred, “and wait for Mum to call us for break­fast Then, Ron, you come bound­ing down­stairs go­ing, ‘Mum, look who turned up in the night!’ and she’ll be all pleased to see Har­ry and no one need ev­er know we flew the car.”

“Right,” said Ron. “Come on, Har­ry, I sleep at the — at the top —”

Ron had gone a nasty green­ish col­or, his eyes fixed on the house. The oth­er three wheeled around.

Mrs. Weasley was march­ing across the yard, scat­ter­ing chick­ens, and for a short, plump, kind-​faced wom­an, it was re­mark­able how much she looked like a saber-​toothed tiger.

“Ah, “said Fred.

“Oh, dear,” said George.

Mrs. Weasley came to a halt in front of them, her hands on her hips, star­ing from one guilty face to the next. She was wear­ing a flow­ered apron with a wand stick­ing out of the pock­et.

“So,” she said.

“Morn­ing, Mum,” said George, in what he clear­ly thought was a jaun­ty, win­ning voice.

“Have you any idea how wor­ried I’ve been?” said Mrs. Weasley in a dead­ly whis­per.

“Sor­ry, Mum, but see, we had to —”

All three of Mrs. Weasley’s sons were taller than she was, but they cow­ered as her rage broke over them.

“Beds emp­ty! No note! Car gone — could have crashed — out of my mind with wor­ry — did you care? — nev­er, as long as I’ve lived — you wait un­til your fa­ther gets home, we nev­er had trou­ble like this from Bill or Char­lie or Per­cy —”

“Per­fect Per­cy,” mut­tered Fred.

“YOU COULD DO WITH TAK­ING A LEAF OUT OF PER­CY’S BOOK!” yelled Mrs. Weasley, prod­ding a fin­ger in Fred’s chest. “You could have died, you could have been seen, you could have lost your fa­ther his job —”

It seemed to go on for hours. Mrs. Weasley had shout­ed her­self hoarse be­fore she turned on Har­ry, who backed away.

“I’m very pleased to see you, Har­ry, dear,” she said. “Come in and have some break­fast.”

She turned and walked back in­to the house and Har­ry, af­ter a ner­vous glance at Ron, who nod­ded en­cour­ag­ing­ly, fol­lowed her.

The kitchen was small and rather cramped. There was a scrubbed wood­en ta­ble and chairs in the mid­dle, and Har­ry sat down on the edge of his seat, look­ing around. He had nev­er been in a wiz­ard house be­fore.

The clock on the wall op­po­site him had on­ly one hand and no num­bers at all. Writ­ten around the edge were things like Time to make tea, Time to feed the chick­ens, and You’re late. Books were stacked three deep on the man­tel­piece, books with ti­tles like Charm Your Own Cheese, En­chant­ment in Bak­ing, and One Minute Feasts — It’s Mag­ic! And un­less Har­ry’s ears were de­ceiv­ing him, the old ra­dio next to the sink had just an­nounced that com­ing up was “Witch­ing Hour, with the pop­ular singing sor­cer­ess, Ce­lesti­na War­beck.”

Mrs. Weasley was clat­ter­ing around, cook­ing break­fast a lit­tle hap­haz­ard­ly, throw­ing dirty looks at her sons as she threw sausages in­to the fry­ing pan. Ev­ery now and then she mut­tered things like “don’t know what you were think­ing of,” and “nev­er would have be­lieved it.”

“I don’t blame you, dear,” she as­sured Har­ry, tip­ping eight or nine sausages on­to his plate. “Arthur and I have been wor­ried about you, too. Just last night we were say­ing we’d come and get you our­selves if you hadn’t writ­ten back to Ron by Fri­day. But re­al­ly,” (she was now adding three fried eggs to his plate) “fly­ing an il­le­gal car halfway across the coun­try — any­one could have seen you —”

She flicked her wand ca­su­al­ly at the dish­es in the sink, which be­gan to clean them­selves, clink­ing gen­tly in the back­ground.

“It was cloudy, Mum!” said Fred.

“You keep your mouth closed while you’re eat­ing!” Mrs. Weasley snapped.

“They were starv­ing him, Mum!” said George.

“And you!” said Mrs. Weasley, but it was with a slight­ly soft­ened ex­pres­sion that she start­ed cut­ting Har­ry bread and but­ter­ing it for him.

At that mo­ment there was a di­ver­sion in the form of a small, red­head­ed fig­ure in a long night­dress, who ap­peared in the kitchen, gave a small squeal, and ran out again.

“Gin­ny,” said Ron in an un­der­tone to Har­ry. “My sis­ter. She’s been talk­ing about you all sum­mer.”

“Yeah, she’ll be want­ing your au­to­graph, Har­ry,” Fred said with a grin, but he caught his moth­er’s eye and bent his face over his plate with­out an­oth­er word. Noth­ing more was said un­til all four plates were clean, which took a sur­pris­ing­ly short time.

“Blimey, I’m tired,” yawned Fred, set­ting down his knife and fork at last. “I think I’ll go to bed and —”

“You will not,” snapped Mrs. Weasley. “It’s your own fault you’ve been up all night. You’re go­ing to de-​gnome the gar­den for me; they’re get­ting com­plete­ly out of hand again —”

“Oh, Mum —”

“And you two,” she said, glar­ing at Ron and Fred. “You can go up to bed, dear,” she added to Har­ry. “You didn’t ask them to fly that wretched car —”

But Har­ry, who felt wide awake, said quick­ly, “I’ll help Ron. I’ve nev­er seen a de-​gnom­ing —”

“That’s very sweet of you, dear, but it’s dull work,” said Mrs. Weasley. “Now, let’s see what Lock­hart’s got to say on the sub­ject —”

And she pulled a heavy book from the stack on the man­tel­piece. George groaned.

“Mum, we know how to de-​gnome a gar­den —”

Har­ry looked at the cov­er of Mrs. Weasley’s book. Writ­ten across it in fan­cy gold let­ters were the words Gilderoy Lock­hart’s Guide to House­hold Pests. There was a big pho­to­graph on the front of a very good-​look­ing wiz­ard with wavy blond hair and bright blue eyes. As al­ways in the wiz­ard­ing world, the pho­to­graph was mov­ing; the wiz­ard, who Har­ry sup­posed was Gilderoy Lock­hart, kept wink­ing cheek­ily up at them all. Mrs. Weasley beamed down at him.

“Oh, he is mar­velous,” she said. “He knows his house­hold pests, all right, it’s a won­der­ful book.…”

“Mum fan­cies him,” said Fred, in a very au­di­ble whis­per.

“Don’t be so ridicu­lous, Fred,” said Mrs. Weasley, her cheeks rather pink. “All right, if you think you know bet­ter than Lock­hart, you can go and get on with it, and woe be­tide you if there’s a sin­gle gnome in that gar­den when I come out to in­spect it.”

Yawn­ing and grum­bling, the Weasleys slouched out­side with Har­ry be­hind them. The gar­den was large, and in Har­ry’s eyes, ex­act­ly what a gar­den should be. The Durs­leys wouldn’t have liked it — there were plen­ty of weeds, and the grass need­ed cut­ting — but there were gnarled trees all around the walls, plants Har­ry had nev­er seen spilling from ev­ery flow­er bed, and a big green pond full of frogs.

“Mug­gles have gar­den gnomes, too, you know,” Har­ry told Ron they crossed the lawn.

“Yeah, I’ve seen those things they think are gnomes,” said Ron, bent dou­ble with his head in a pe­ony bush, “like fat lit­tle San­ta Claus­es with fish­ing rods.…”

There was a vi­olent scuf­fling noise, the pe­ony bush shud­dered, and Ron straight­ened up. “This is a gnome,” he said grim­ly.

“Ger­roff me! Ger­roff me!” squealed the gnome.

It was cer­tain­ly noth­ing like San­ta Claus. It was small and leath­ery look­ing, with a large, knob­by, bald head ex­act­ly like a pota­to. Ron held it at arm’s length as it kicked out at him with its horny lit­tle feet; he grasped it around the an­kles and turned it up­side down.

“This is what you have to do,” he said. He raised the gnome above his head (“Ger­roff me!”) and start­ed to swing it in great cir­cles like a las­so. See­ing the shocked look on Har­ry’s face, Ron added, “It doesn’t hurt them —you’ve just got to make them re­al­ly dizzy so they can’t find their way back to the gnome holes.”

He let go of the gnome’s an­kles: It flew twen­ty feet in­to the air and land­ed with a thud in the field over the hedge.

“Piti­ful,” said Fred. “I bet I can get mine be­yond that stump.”

Har­ry learned quick­ly not to feel too sor­ry for the gnomes. He de­cid­ed just to drop the first one he caught over the hedge, but the gnome, sens­ing weak­ness, sank its ra­zor-​sharp teeth in­to Har­ry’s fin­ger and he had a hard job shak­ing it off — un­til —

“Wow, Har­ry — that must’ve been fifty feet.…”

The air was soon thick with fly­ing gnomes.

“See, they’re not too bright,” said George, seiz­ing five or six gnomes at once. “The mo­ment they know the de-​gnom­ing’s go­ing on they storm up to have a look. You’d think they’d have learned by now just to stay put.”

Soon, the crowd of gnomes in the field start­ed walk­ing away in a strag­gling line, their lit­tle shoul­ders hunched.

“They’ll be back,” said Ron as they watched the gnomes dis­ap­pear in­to the hedge on the oth­er side of the field. “They love it here.…Dad’s too soft with them; he thinks they’re fun­ny.…”

Just then, the front door slammed.

“He’s back!” said George. “Dad’s home!”

They hur­ried through the gar­den and back in­to the house.

Mr. Weasley was slumped in a kitchen chair with his glass­es off and his eyes closed. He was a thin man, go­ing bald, but the lit­tle hair he had was as red as any of his chil­dren’s. He was wear­ing long green robes, which were dusty and trav­el-​worn.

“What a night,” he mum­bled, grop­ing for the teapot as they all sat down around him. “Nine raids. Nine! And old Mundun­gus Fletch­er tried to put a hex on me when I had my back turned.…”

Mr. Weasley took a long gulp of tea and sighed.

“Find any­thing, Dad?” said Fred ea­ger­ly.

“All I got were a few shrink­ing door keys and a bit­ing ket­tle,” yawned Mr. Weasley. “There was some pret­ty nasty stuff that wasn’t my de­part­ment, though. Mort­lake was tak­en away for ques­tion­ing about some ex­treme­ly odd fer­rets, but that’s the Com­mit­tee on Ex­per­imen­tal Charms, thank good­ness.…”

“Why would any­one both­er mak­ing door keys shrink?” said George.

“Just Mug­gle-​bait­ing,” sighed Mr. Weasley. “Sell them a key that keeps shrink­ing to noth­ing so they can nev­er find it when they need it.…Of course, it’s very hard to con­vict any­one be­cause no Mug­gle would ad­mit their key keeps shrink­ing — they’ll in­sist they just keep los­ing it. Bless them, they’ll go to any lengths to ig­nore mag­ic, even if it’s star­ing them in the face.…But the things our lot have tak­en to en­chant­ing, you wouldn’t be­lieve —”

“LIKE CARS, FOR IN­STANCE?”

Mrs. Weasley had ap­peared, hold­ing a long pok­er like a sword. Mr. Weasley’s eyes jerked open. He stared guilti­ly at his wife.

“C-​cars, Mol­ly, dear?”

“Yes, Arthur, cars,” said Mrs. Weasley, her eyes flash­ing. “Imag­ine a wiz­ard buy­ing a rusty old car and telling his wife all he want­ed to do with it was take it apart to see how it worked, while re­al­ly he was en­chant­ing it to make it fly.”

Mr. Weasley blinked.

“Well, dear, I think you’ll find that he would be quite with­in the law to do that, even if — er — he maybe would have done bet­ter to, um, tell his wife the truth.…There’s a loop­hole in the law, you’ll find.…As long as he wasn’t in­tend­ing to fly the car, the fact that the car could fly wouldn’t —”

“Arthur Weasley, you made sure there was a loop­hole when you wrote that law!” shout­ed Mrs. Weasley. “Just so you could car­ry on tin­ker­ing with all that Mug­gle rub­bish in your shed! And for your in­for­ma­tion, Har­ry ar­rived this morn­ing in the car you weren’t in­tend­ing to fly!”

“Har­ry?” said Mr. Weasley blankly. “Har­ry who?”

He looked around, saw Har­ry, and jumped.

“Good lord, is it Har­ry Pot­ter? Very pleased to meet you, Ron’s told us so much about —”

“Your sons flew that car to Har­ry’s house and back last night!” shout­ed Mrs. Weasley. “What have you got to say about that, eh?”

“Did you re­al­ly?” said Mr. Weasley ea­ger­ly. “Did it go all right? I — I mean,” he fal­tered as sparks flew from Mrs. Weasley’s eyes, “that — that was very wrong, boys — very wrong in­deed.…”

“Let’s leave them to it,” Ron mut­tered to Har­ry as Mrs. Weasley swelled like a bull­frog. “Come on, I’ll show you my bed­room.”

They slipped out of the kitchen and down a nar­row pas­sage­way to an un­even stair­case, which wound its way, zigzag­ging up through the house. On the third land­ing, a door stood ajar. Har­ry just caught sight of a pair of bright brown eyes star­ing at him be­fore it closed with a snap.

“Gin­ny,” said Ron. “You don’t know how weird it is for her to be this shy. She nev­er shuts up nor­mal­ly —”

They climbed two more flights un­til they reached a door with peel­ing paint and a small plaque on it, say­ing RONALD’S ROOM .

Har­ry stepped in, his head al­most touch­ing the slop­ing ceil­ing, and blinked. It was like walk­ing in­to a fur­nace: Near­ly ev­ery­thing in Ron’s room seemed to be a vi­olent shade of or­ange: the bed­spread, the walls, even the ceil­ing. Then Har­ry re­al­ized that Ron had cov­ered near­ly ev­ery inch of the shab­by wall­pa­per with posters of the same sev­en witch­es and wiz­ards, all wear­ing bright or­ange robes, car­ry­ing broom­sticks, and wav­ing en­er­get­ical­ly.

“Your Quid­ditch team?” said Har­ry.

“The Chud­ley Can­nons,” said Ron, point­ing at the or­ange bed­spread, which was em­bla­zoned with two gi­ant black C’s and a speed­ing can­non­ball. “Ninth in the league.”

Ron’s school spell­books were stacked un­tidi­ly in a cor­ner, next to a pile of comics that all seemed to fea­ture The Ad­ven­tures of Mar­tin Miggs, the Mad Mug­gle. Ron’s mag­ic wand was ly­ing on top of a fish tank full of frog spawn on the win­dowsill, next to his fat gray rat, Scab­bers, who was snooz­ing in a patch of sun.

Har­ry stepped over a pack of Self-​Shuf­fling play­ing cards on the floor and looked out of the tiny win­dow. In the field far be­low he could see a gang of gnomes sneak­ing one by one back through the Weasleys’ hedge. Then he turned to look at Ron, who was watch­ing him al­most ner­vous­ly, as though wait­ing for his opin­ion.

“It’s a bit small,” said Ron quick­ly. “Not like that room you had with the Mug­gles. And I’m right un­der­neath the ghoul in the at­tic; he’s al­ways bang­ing on the pipes and groan­ing.…”

But Har­ry, grin­ning wide­ly, said, “This is the best house I’ve ev­er been in.”

Ron’s ears went pink.





HP 2 - Harry Potter and The Chamber of Secrets





CHAPTER FOUR




AT FLOUR­ISH AND BLOTTS



L ife at the Bur­row was as dif­fer­ent as pos­si­ble from life on Priv­et Drive. The Durs­leys liked ev­ery­thing neat and or­dered; the Weasleys’ house burst with the strange and un­ex­pect­ed. Har­ry got a shock the first time he looked in the mir­ror over the kitchen man­tel­piece and it shout­ed, “Tuck your shirt in, scruffy!” The ghoul in the at­tic howled and dropped pipes when­ev­er he felt things were get­ting too qui­et, and small ex­plo­sions from Fred and George’s bed­room were con­sid­ered per­fect­ly nor­mal. What Har­ry found most un­usu­al about life at Ron’s, how­ev­er, wasn’t the talk­ing mir­ror or the clank­ing ghoul: It was the fact that ev­ery­body there seemed to like him.

Mrs. Weasley fussed over the state of his socks and tried to force him to eat fourth help­ings at ev­ery meal. Mr. Weasley liked Har­ry to sit next to him at the din­ner ta­ble so that he could bom­bard him with ques­tions about life with Mug­gles, ask­ing him to ex­plain how things like plugs and the postal ser­vice worked.

“Fas­ci­nat­ing.” he would say as Har­ry talked him through us­ing a tele­phone. “In­ge­nious, re­al­ly, how many ways Mug­gles have found of get­ting along with­out mag­ic.”

Har­ry heard from Hog­warts one sun­ny morn­ing about a week af­ter he had ar­rived at the Bur­row. He and Ron went down to break­fast to find Mr. and Mrs. Weasley and Gin­ny al­ready sit­ting at the kitchen ta­ble. The mo­ment she saw Har­ry, Gin­ny ac­ci­den­tal­ly knocked her por­ridge bowl to the floor with a loud clat­ter. Gin­ny seemed very prone to knock­ing things over when­ev­er Har­ry en­tered a room. She dived un­der the ta­ble to re­trieve the bowl and emerged with her face glow­ing like the set­ting sun. Pre­tend­ing he hadn’t no­ticed this, Har­ry sat down and took the toast Mrs. Weasley of­fered him.

“Let­ters from school,” said Mr. Weasley, pass­ing Har­ry and Ron iden­ti­cal en­velopes of yel­low­ish parch­ment, ad­dressed in green ink. “Dum­ble­dore al­ready knows you’re here, Har­ry — doesn’t miss a trick, that man. You two’ve got them, too,” he added, as Fred and George am­bled in, still in their pa­ja­mas.

For a few min­utes there was si­lence as they all read their let­ters. Har­ry’s told him to catch the Hog­warts Ex­press as usu­al from King’s Cross sta­tion on Septem­ber first. There was al­so a list of the new books he’d need for the com­ing year.



SEC­OND-​YEAR STU­DENTS WILL RE­QUIRE:

The Stan­dard Book of Spells, Grade 2 by Mi­ran­da Goshawk

Break with a Ban­shee by Gilderoy Lock­hart

Gadding with Ghouls by Gilderoy Lock­hart

Hol­idays with Hags by Gilderoy Lock­hart

43 Trav­els with Trolls by Gilderoy Lock­hart

Voy­ages with Vam­pires by Gilderoy Lock­hart

Wan­der­ings with Were­wolves by Gilderoy Lock­hart

Year with the Yeti by Gilderoy Lock­hart



Fred, who had fin­ished his own list, peered over at Har­ry’s.

“You’ve been told to get all Lock­hart’s books, too!” he said. “The new De­fense Against the Dark Arts teach­er must be a fan — bet it’s a witch.”

At this point, Fred caught his moth­er’s eye and quick­ly bus­ied him­self with the mar­malade.

“That lot won’t come cheap,” said George, with a quick look at his par­ents. “Lock­hart’s books are re­al­ly ex­pen­sive….”

“Well, we’ll man­age,” said Mrs. Weasley, but she looked wor­ried. “I ex­pect we’ll be able to pick up a lot of Gin­ny’s things sec­ond­hand.”

“Oh, are you start­ing at Hog­warts this year?” Har­ry asked Gin­ny.

She nod­ded, blush­ing to the roots of her flam­ing hair, and put her el­bow in the but­ter dish. For­tu­nate­ly no one saw this ex­cept Har­ry, be­cause just then Ron’s el­der broth­er Per­cy walked in. He was al­ready dressed, his Hog­warts pre­fect badge pinned to his sweater vest.

“Morn­ing, all,” said Per­cy briskly. “Love­ly day.”

He sat down in the on­ly re­main­ing chair but leapt up again al­most im­me­di­ate­ly, pulling from un­der­neath him a molt­ing, gray feath­er duster — at least, that was what Har­ry thought it was, un­til he saw that it was breath­ing.

“Er­rol!” said Ron, tak­ing the limp owl from Per­cy and ex­tract­ing a let­ter from un­der its wing. “Fi­nal­ly — he’s got Hermione’s an­swer. I wrote to her say­ing we were go­ing to try and res­cue you from the Durs­leys.”

He car­ried Er­rol to a perch just in­side the back door and tried to stand him on it, but Er­rol flopped straight off again so Ron lay him on the drain­ing board in­stead, mut­ter­ing, “Pa­thet­ic.” Then he ripped open Hermione’s let­ter and read it out loud:

“`Dear Ron, and Har­ry if you’re there,

“`I hope ev­ery­thing went all right and that Har­ry is okay and that you didn’t do any­thing il­le­gal to get him out, Ron, be­cause that would get Har­ry in­to trou­ble, too. I’ve been re­al­ly wor­ried and if Har­ry is all right, will you please let me know at once, but per­haps it would be bet­ter if you used a dif­fer­ent owl be­cause I think an­oth­er de­liv­ery might fin­ish your one off.

“‘I’m very busy with school­work, of course’ — How can she be?” said Ron in hor­ror. “We’re on va­ca­tion! — ‘and we’re go­ing to Lon­don next Wednes­day to buy my new books. Why don’t we meet in Di­agon Al­ley?

“‘Let me know what’s hap­pen­ing as soon as you can. Love from Hermione.’ ”

“Well, that fits in nice­ly, we can go and get all your things then, too,” said Mrs. Weasley, start­ing to clear the ta­ble. “What’re you all up to to­day?”

Har­ry, Ron, Fred, and George were plan­ning to go up the hill to a small pad­dock the Weasleys owned. It was sur­round­ed by trees that blocked it from view of the vil­lage be­low, mean­ing that they could prac­tice Quid­ditch there, as long as they didn’t fly too high.

They couldn’t use re­al Quid­ditch balls, which would have been hard to ex­plain if they had es­caped and flown away over the vil­lage; in­stead they threw ap­ples for one an­oth­er to catch. They took turns rid­ing Har­ry’s Nim­bus Two Thou­sand, which was eas­ily the best broom; Ron’s old Shoot­ing Star was of­ten out­stripped by pass­ing but­ter­flies.

Five min­utes lat­er they were march­ing up the hill, broom­sticks over their shoul­ders. They had asked Per­cy if he want­ed to join them, but he had said he was busy. Har­ry had on­ly seen Per­cy at meal­times so far; he stayed shut in his room the rest of the time.

“Wish I knew what he was up to,” said Fred, frown­ing. “He’s not him­self. His ex­am re­sults came the day be­fore you did; twelve O.W.L.s and he hard­ly gloat­ed at all.”

“Or­di­nary Wiz­ard­ing Lev­els,” George ex­plained, see­ing Har­ry’s puz­zled look. “Bill got twelve, too. If we’re not care­ful, we’ll have an­oth­er Head Boy in the fam­ily. I don’t think I could stand the shame.”

Bill was the old­est Weasley broth­er. He and the next broth­er, Char­lie, had al­ready left Hog­warts. Har­ry had nev­er met ei­ther of them, but knew that Char­lie was in Ro­ma­nia study­ing drag­ons and Bill in Egypt work­ing for the wiz­ard’s bank, Gringotts.

“Dun­no how Mum and Dad are go­ing to af­ford all our school stuff this year,” said George af­ter a while. “Five sets of Lock­hart books! And Gin­ny needs robes and a wand and ev­ery­thing….”

Har­ry said noth­ing. He felt a bit awk­ward. Stored in an un­der­ground vault at Gringotts in Lon­don was a small for­tune that his par­ents had left him. Of course, it was on­ly in the wiz­ard­ing world that he had mon­ey; you couldn’t use Galleons, Sick­les, and Knuts in Mug­gle shops. He had nev­er men­tioned his Gringotts bank ac­count to the Durs­leys; he didn’t think their hor­ror of any­thing con­nect­ed with mag­ic would stretch to a large pile of gold.



Mrs. Weasley woke them all ear­ly the fol­low­ing Wednes­day. Af­ter a quick half a dozen ba­con sand­wich­es each, they pulled on their coats and Mrs. Weasley took a flow­er­pot off the kitchen man­tel­piece and peered in­side.

“We’re run­ning low, Arthur,” she sighed. “We’ll have to buy some more to­day.…Ah well, guests first! Af­ter you, Har­ry dear!”

And she of­fered him the flow­er­pot.

Har­ry stared at them all watch­ing him.

“W-​what am I sup­posed to do?” he stam­mered.

“He’s nev­er trav­eled by Floo pow­der,” said Ron sud­den­ly. “Sor­ry, Har­ry, I for­got.”

“Nev­er?” said Mr. Weasley. “But how did you get to Di­agon Al­ley to buy your school things last year?”

“I went on the Un­der­ground —”

“Re­al­ly?” said Mr. Weasley ea­ger­ly. “Were there es­cap­ators? How ex­act­ly —”

“Not now, Arthur,” said Mrs. Weasley. “Floo pow­der’s a lot quick­er, dear, but good­ness me, if you’ve nev­er used it be­fore —”

“He’ll be all right, Mum,” said Fred. “Har­ry, watch us first.”

He took a pinch of glit­ter­ing pow­der out of the flow­er­pot, stepped up to the fire, and threw the pow­der in­to the flames.

With a roar, the fire turned emer­ald green and rose high­er than Fred, who stepped right in­to it, shout­ed, “Di­agon Al­ley!” and van­ished.

“You must speak clear­ly, dear,” Mrs. Weasley told Har­ry as George dipped his hand in­to the flow­er­pot. “And be sure to get out at the right grate….”

“The right what?” said Har­ry ner­vous­ly as the fire roared and whipped George out of sight, too.

“Well, there are an aw­ful lot of wiz­ard fires to choose from, you know, but as long as you’ve spo­ken clear­ly —”

“He’ll be fine, Mol­ly, don’t fuss,” said Mr. Weasley, help­ing him­self to Floo pow­der too.

“But, dear, if he got lost, how would we ev­er ex­plain to his aunt and un­cle?”

“They wouldn’t mind,” Har­ry re­as­sured her. “Dud­ley would think it was a bril­liant joke if I got lost up a chim­ney, don’t wor­ry about that —”

“Well…all right…you go af­ter Arthur,” said Mrs. Weasley. “Now, when you get in­to the fire, say where you’re go­ing.”

“And keep your el­bows tucked in,” Ron ad­vised.

“And your eyes shut,” said Mrs. Weasley. “The soot —”

“Don’t fid­get,” said Ron. “Or you might well fall out of the wrong fire­place —”

“But don’t pan­ic and get out too ear­ly; wait un­til you see Fred and George.”

Try­ing hard to bear all this in mind, Har­ry took a pinch of Floo pow­der and walked to the edge of the fire. He took a deep breath, scat­tered the pow­der in­to the flames, and stepped for­ward; the fire felt like a warm breeze; he opened his mouth and im­me­di­ate­ly swal­lowed a lot of hot ash.

“D-​Dia-​gon Al­ley,” he coughed.

It felt as though he was be­ing sucked down a gi­ant drain. He seemed to be spin­ning very fast — the roar­ing in his ears was deaf­en­ing — he tried to keep his eyes open but the whirl of green flames made him feel sick —some­thing hard knocked his el­bow and he tucked it in tight­ly, still spin­ning and spin­ning — now it felt as though cold hands were slap­ping his face — squint­ing through his glass­es he saw a blurred stream of fire­places and snatched glimpses of the rooms be­yond — his ba­con sand­wich­es were churn­ing in­side him — he closed his eyes again wish­ing it would stop, and then…

He fell, face for­ward, on­to cold stone and felt the bridge of his glass­es snap.

Dizzy and bruised, cov­ered in soot, he got gin­ger­ly to his feet, hold­ing his bro­ken glass­es up to his eyes. He was quite alone, but where he was, he had no idea. All he could tell was that he was stand­ing in the stone fire­place of what looked like a large, dim­ly lit wiz­ard’s shop — but noth­ing in here was ev­er like­ly to be on a Hog­warts school list.

A glass case near­by held a with­ered hand on a cush­ion, a blood­stained pack of cards, and a star­ing glass eye. Evil-​look­ing masks stared down from the walls, an as­sort­ment of hu­man bones lay up­on the counter, and rusty, spiked in­stru­ments hung from the ceil­ing. Even worse, the dark, nar­row street Har­ry could see through the dusty shop win­dow was def­inite­ly not Di­agon Al­ley.

The soon­er he got out of here, the bet­ter. Nose still sting­ing where it had hit the hearth, Har­ry made his way swift­ly and silent­ly to­ward the door, but be­fore he’d got halfway to­ward it, two peo­ple ap­peared on the oth­er side of the glass — and one of them was the very last per­son Har­ry want­ed to meet when he was lost, cov­ered in soot, and wear­ing bro­ken glass­es: Dra­co Mal­foy.

Har­ry looked quick­ly around and spot­ted a large black cab­inet to his left; he shot in­side it and pulled the doors closed, leav­ing a small crack to peer through. Sec­onds lat­er, a bell clanged, and Mal­foy stepped in­to the shop.

The man who fol­lowed could on­ly be Dra­co’s fa­ther. He had the same pale, point­ed face and iden­ti­cal cold, gray eyes. Mr. Mal­foy crossed the shop, look­ing lazi­ly at the items on dis­play, and rang a bell on the counter be­fore turn­ing to his son and say­ing, “Touch noth­ing, Dra­co.”

Mal­foy, who had reached for the glass eye, said, “I thought you were go­ing to buy me a present.”

“I said I would buy you a rac­ing broom,” said his fa­ther, drum­ming his fin­gers on the counter.

“What’s the good of that if I’m not on the House team?” said Mal­foy, look­ing sulky and bad-​tem­pered. “Har­ry Pot­ter got a Nim­bus Two Thou­sand last year. Spe­cial per­mis­sion from Dum­ble­dore so he could play for Gryffind­or. He’s not even that good, it’s just be­cause he’s fa­mous…fa­mous for hav­ing a stupid scar on his fore­head.…”

Mal­foy bent down to ex­am­ine a shelf full of skulls.

“…ev­ery­one thinks he’s so smart, won­der­ful Pot­ter with his scar and his broom­stick —”

“You have told me this at least a dozen times al­ready,” said Mr. Mal­foy, with a quelling look at his son. “And I would re­mind you that it is not — pru­dent — to ap­pear less than fond of Har­ry Pot­ter, not when most of our kind re­gard him as the hero who made the Dark Lord dis­ap­pear — ah, Mr. Bor­gin.”

A stoop­ing man had ap­peared be­hind the counter, smooth­ing his greasy hair back from his face.

“Mr. Mal­foy, what a plea­sure to see you again,” said Mr. Bor­gin in a voice as oily as his hair. “De­light­ed — and young Mas­ter Mal­foy, too — charmed. How may I be of as­sis­tance? I must show you, just in to­day, and very rea­son­ably priced —”

“I’m not buy­ing to­day, Mr. Bor­gin, but sell­ing,” said Mr. Mal­foy.

“Sell­ing?” The smile fad­ed slight­ly from Mr. Bor­gin’s face.

“You have heard, of course, that the Min­istry is con­duct­ing more raids,” said Mr. Mal­foy, tak­ing a roll of parch­ment from his in­side pock­et and un­rav­el­ing it for Mr. Bor­gin to read. “I have a few — ah — items at home that might em­bar­rass me, if the Min­istry were to call.…”

Mr. Bor­gin fixed a pair of pince-​nez to his nose and looked down the list.

“The Min­istry wouldn’t pre­sume to trou­ble you, sir, sure­ly?”

Mr. Mal­foy’s lip curled.

“I have not been vis­it­ed yet. The name Mal­foy still com­mands a cer­tain re­spect, yet the Min­istry grows ev­er more med­dle­some. There are ru­mors about a new Mug­gle Pro­tec­tion Act — no doubt that flea-​bit­ten, Mug­gle-​lov­ing fool Arthur Weasley is be­hind it —”

Har­ry felt a hot surge of anger.

“— and as you see, cer­tain of these poi­sons might make it ap­pear —”

“I un­der­stand, sir, of course,” said Mr. Bor­gin. “Let me see.…”

“Can I have that?” in­ter­rupt­ed Dra­co, point­ing at the with­ered hand on its cush­ion.

“Ah, the Hand of Glo­ry!” said Mr. Bor­gin, aban­don­ing Mr. Mal­foy’s list and scur­ry­ing over to Dra­co. “In­sert a can­dle and it gives light on­ly to the hold­er! Best friend of thieves and plun­der­ers! Your son has fine taste, sir.”

“I hope my son will amount to more than a thief or a plun­der­er, Bor­gin,” said Mr. Mal­foy cold­ly, and Mr. Bor­gin said quick­ly, “No of­fense, sir, no of­fense meant —”

“Though if his grades don’t pick up,” said Mr. Mal­foy, more cold­ly still, “that may in­deed be all he is fit for —”

“It’s not my fault,” re­tort­ed Dra­co. “The teach­ers all have fa­vorites, that Hermione Granger —”

“I would have thought you’d be ashamed that a girl of no wiz­ard fam­ily beat you in ev­ery ex­am,” snapped Mr. Mal­foy.

“Ha!” said Har­ry un­der his breath, pleased to see Dra­co look­ing both abashed and an­gry.

“It’s the same all over,” said Mr. Bor­gin, in his oily voice. “Wiz­ard blood is count­ing for less ev­ery­where —”

“Not with me,” said Mr. Mal­foy, his long nos­trils flar­ing.

“No, sir, nor with me, sir,” said Mr. Bor­gin, with a deep bow.

“In that case, per­haps we can re­turn to my list,” said Mr. Mal­foy short­ly. “I am in some­thing of a hur­ry, Bor­gin, I have im­por­tant busi­ness else­where to­day —”

They start­ed to hag­gle. Har­ry watched ner­vous­ly as Dra­co drew near­er and near­er to his hid­ing place, ex­am­in­ing the ob­jects for sale. Dra­co paused to ex­am­ine a long coil of hang­man’s rope and to read, smirk­ing, the card propped on a mag­nif­icent neck­lace of opals, Cau­tion: Do Not Touch. Cursed — Has Claimed the Lives of Nine­teen Mug­gle Own­ers to Date.

Dra­co turned away and saw the cab­inet right in front of him. He walked for­ward — he stretched out his hand for the han­dle “Done,” said Mr. Mal­foy at the counter. “Come, Dra­co —”

Har­ry wiped his fore­head on his sleeve as Dra­co turned away.

“Good day to you, Mr. Bor­gin. I’ll ex­pect you at the manor to­mor­row to pick up the goods.”

The mo­ment the door had closed, Mr. Bor­gin dropped his oily man­ner.

“Good day your­self, Mis­ter Mal­foy, and if the sto­ries are true, you haven’t sold me half of what’s hid­den in your manor….”

Mut­ter­ing dark­ly, Mr. Bor­gin dis­ap­peared in­to a back room. Har­ry wait­ed for a minute in case he came back, then, qui­et­ly as he could, slipped out of the cab­inet, past the glass cas­es, and out of the shop door.

Clutch­ing his bro­ken glass­es to his face, Har­ry stared around. He had emerged in­to a dingy al­ley­way that seemed to be made up en­tire­ly of shops de­vot­ed to the Dark Arts. The one he’d just left, Bor­gin and Burkes, looked like the largest, but op­po­site was a nasty win­dow dis­play of shrunk­en heads and, two doors down, a large cage was alive with gi­gan­tic black spi­ders. Two shab­by-​look­ing wiz­ards were watch­ing him from the shad­ow of a door­way, mut­ter­ing to each oth­er. Feel­ing jumpy, Har­ry set off, try­ing to hold his glass­es on straight and hop­ing against hope he’d be able to find a way out of here.

An old wood­en street sign hang­ing over a shop sell­ing poi­sonous can­dles told him he was in Knock­turn Al­ley. This didn’t help, as Har­ry had nev­er heard of such a place. He sup­posed he hadn’t spo­ken clear­ly enough through his mouth­ful of ash­es back in the Weasleys’ fire. Try­ing to stay calm, he won­dered what to do.

“Not lost are you, my dear?” said a voice in his ear, mak­ing him jump.

An aged witch stood in front of him, hold­ing a tray of what looked hor­ri­bly like whole hu­man fin­ger­nails. She leered at him, show­ing mossy teeth. Har­ry backed away.

“I’m fine, thanks,” he said. “I’m just —”

“HAR­RY! What d’yeh think yer doin’ down there?”

Har­ry’s heart leapt. So did the witch; a load of fin­ger­nails cas­cad­ed down over her feet and she cursed as the mas­sive form of Ha­grid, the Hog­warts’ game­keep­er, came strid­ing to­ward them, bee­tle-​black eyes flash­ing over his great bristling beard.

“Ha­grid!” Har­ry croaked in re­lief. “I was lost — Floo pow­der —”

Ha­grid seized Har­ry by the scruff of the neck and pulled him away from the witch, knock­ing the tray right out of her hands. Her shrieks fol­lowed them all the way along the twist­ing al­ley­way out in­to bright sun­light. Har­ry saw a fa­mil­iar, snow-​white mar­ble build­ing in the dis­tance — Gringotts Bank. Ha­grid had steered him right in­to Di­agon Al­ley.

“Yer a mess!” said Ha­grid gruffly, brush­ing soot off Har­ry so force­ful­ly he near­ly knocked him in­to a bar­rel of drag­on dung out­side an apothe­cary. “Skulkin’ around Knock­turn Al­ley, I dun­no dodgy place, Har­ry — don’ want no one ter see yeh down there —”

“I re­al­ized that,” said Har­ry, duck­ing as Ha­grid made to brush him off again. “I told you, I was lost — what were you do­ing down there, any­way?”

“I was lookin’ fer a Flesh-​Eatin’ Slug Re­pel­lent,” growled Ha­grid. “They’re ru­inin’ the school cab­bages. Yer not on yer own?”

“I’m stay­ing with the Weasleys but we got sep­arat­ed,” Har­ry ex­plained. “I’ve got to go and find them.…”

They set off to­geth­er down the street.

“How come yeh nev­er wrote back ter me?” said Ha­grid as Har­ry jogged along­side him (he had to take three steps to ev­ery stride of Ha­grid’s enor­mous boots). Har­ry ex­plained all about Dob­by and the Durs­leys.

“Lousy Mug­gles,” growled Ha­grid. “If I’d’ve known —”

“Har­ry! Har­ry! Over here!”

Har­ry looked up and saw Hermione Granger stand­ing at the top of the white flight of steps to Gringotts. She ran down to meet them, her bushy brown hair fly­ing be­hind her.

“What hap­pened to your glass­es? Hel­lo, Ha­grid — Oh, it’s won­der­ful to see you two again — Are you com­ing in­to Gringotts, Har­ry?”

“As soon as I’ve found the Weasleys,” said Har­ry.

“Yeh won’t have long ter wait,” Ha­grid said with a grin.

Har­ry and Hermione looked around: Sprint­ing up the crowd­ed street were Ron, Fred, George, Per­cy, and Mr. Weasley.

“Har­ry,” Mr. Weasley pant­ed. “We hoped you’d on­ly gone one grate too far.…” He mopped his glis­ten­ing bald patch. “Mol­ly’s fran­tic — she’s com­ing now —”

“Where did you come out?” Ron asked.

“Knock­turn Al­ley,” said Ha­grid grim­ly.

“Ex­cel­lent!” said Fred and George to­geth­er.

“We’ve nev­er been al­lowed in,” said Ron en­vi­ous­ly.

“I should rud­dy well think not,” growled Ha­grid. Mrs. Weasley now came gal­lop­ing in­to view, her hand­bag swing­ing wild­ly in one hand, Gin­ny just cling­ing on­to the oth­er.

“Oh, Har­ry — oh, my dear — you could have been any­where —”

Gasp­ing for breath she pulled a large clothes brush out of her bag and be­gan sweep­ing off the soot Ha­grid hadn’t man­aged to beat away. Mr. Weasley took Har­ry’s glass­es, gave them a tap of his wand, and re­turned them, good as new.

“Well, got­ta be off,” said Ha­grid, who was hav­ing his hand wrung by Mrs. Weasley (“Knock­turn Al­ley! If you hadn’t found him, Ha­grid!”). “See yer at Hog­warts!” And he strode away, head and shoul­ders taller than any­one else in the packed street.

“Guess who I saw in Bor­gin and Burkes?” Har­ry asked Ron and Hermione as they climbed the Gringotts steps. “Mal­foy and his fa­ther.”

“Did Lu­cius Mal­foy buy any­thing?” said Mr. Weasley sharply be­hind them.

“No, he was sell­ing —”

“So he’s wor­ried,” said Mr. Weasley with grim sat­is­fac­tion. “Oh, I’d love to get Lu­cius Mal­foy for some­thing …”

“You be care­ful, Arthur,” said Mrs. Weasley sharply as they were bowed in­to the bank by a gob­lin at the door. “That fam­ily’s trou­ble. Don’t go bit­ing off more than you can chew —”

“So you don’t think I’m a match for Lu­cius Mal­foy?” said Mr. Weasley in­dig­nant­ly, but he was dis­tract­ed al­most at once by the sight of Hermione’s par­ents, who were stand­ing ner­vous­ly at the counter that ran all along the great mar­ble hall, wait­ing for Hermione to in­tro­duce them.

“But you’re Mug­gles!” said Mr. Weasley de­light­ed­ly. “We must have a drink! What’s that you’ve got there? Oh, you’re chang­ing Mug­gle mon­ey. Mol­ly, look!” He point­ed ex­cit­ed­ly at the ten-​pound notes in Mr. Granger’s hand.

“Meet you back here,” Ron said to Hermione as the Weasleys and Har­ry were led off to their un­der­ground vaults by an­oth­er Gringotts gob­lin.

The vaults were reached by means of small, gob­lin-​driv­en carts that sped along minia­ture train tracks through the bank’s un­der­ground tun­nels. Har­ry en­joyed the break­neck jour­ney down to the Weasleys’ vault, but felt dread­ful, far worse than he had in Knock­turn Al­ley, when it was opened. There was a very small pile of sil­ver Sick­les in­side, and just one gold Galleon. Mrs. Weasley felt right in­to the cor­ners be­fore sweep­ing the whole lot in­to her bag. Har­ry felt even worse when they reached his vault. He tried to block the con­tents from view as he hasti­ly shoved hand­fuls of coins in­to a leather bag.

Back out­side on the mar­ble steps, they all sep­arat­ed. Per­cy mut­tered vague­ly about need­ing a new quill. Fred and George had spot­ted their friend from Hog­warts, Lee Jor­dan. Mrs. Weasley and Gin­ny were go­ing to a sec­ond­hand robe shop. Mr. Weasley was in­sist­ing on tak­ing the Grangers off to the Leaky Caul­dron for a drink.

“We’ll all meet at Flour­ish and Blotts in an hour to buy your school­books,” said Mrs. Weasley, set­ting off with Gin­ny. “And not one step down Knock­turn Al­ley!” she shout­ed at the twins’ re­treat­ing backs.

Har­ry, Ron, and Hermione strolled off along the wind­ing, cob­bled street. The bag of gold, sil­ver, and bronze jan­gling cheer­ful­ly in Har­ry’s pock­et was clam­or­ing to be spent, so he bought three large straw­ber­ry-​and-​peanut-​but­ter ice creams, which they slurped hap­pi­ly as they wan­dered up the al­ley, ex­am­in­ing the fas­ci­nat­ing shop win­dows. Ron gazed long­ing­ly at a full set of Chud­ley Can­non robes in the win­dows of Qual­ity Quid­ditch Sup­plies un­til Hermione dragged them off to buy ink and parch­ment next door. In Gam­bol and Japes Wiz­ard­ing Joke Shop, they met Fred, George, and Lee Jor­dan, who were stock­ing up on Dr. Fil­ibuster’s Fab­ulous Wet-​Start, No-​Heat Fire­works, and in a tiny junk shop full of bro­ken wands, lop­sid­ed brass scales, and old cloaks cov­ered in po­tion stains they found Per­cy, deeply im­mersed in a small and deeply bor­ing book called Pre­fects Who Gained Pow­er.

“A study of Hog­warts pre­fects and their lat­er ca­reers,” Ron read aloud off the back cov­er. “That sounds fas­ci­nat­ing.…”

“Go away,” Per­cy snapped.

“’Course, he’s very am­bi­tious, Per­cy, he’s got it all planned out.…He wants to be Min­is­ter of Mag­ic…” Ron told Har­ry and Hermione in an un­der­tone as they left Per­cy to it.

An hour lat­er, they head­ed for Flour­ish and Blotts. They were by no means the on­ly ones mak­ing their way to the book­shop. As they ap­proached it, they saw to their sur­prise a large crowd jostling out­side the doors, try­ing to get in. The rea­son for this was pro­claimed by a large ban­ner stretched across the up­per win­dows:



GILDEROY LOCK­HART

will be sign­ing copies of his au­to­bi­og­ra­phy

MAG­ICAL ME

to­day 12:30 P.M. to 4:30 P.M.



“We can ac­tu­al­ly meet him!” Hermione squealed. “I mean, he’s writ­ten al­most the whole book­list!”

The crowd seemed to be made up most­ly of witch­es around Mrs. Weasley’s age. A ha­rassed-​look­ing wiz­ard stood at the door, say­ing, “Calm­ly, please, ladies.…Don’t push, there…mind the books, now.…”

Har­ry, Ron, and Hermione squeezed in­side. A long line wound right to the back of the shop, where Gilderoy Lock­hart was sign­ing his books. They each grabbed a copy of The Stan­dard Book of Spells, Grade 2 and sneaked up the line to where the rest of the Weasleys were stand­ing with Mr. and Mrs. Granger.

“Oh, there you are, good,” said Mrs. Weasley. She sound­ed breath­less and kept pat­ting her hair. “We’ll be able to see him in a minute.…”

Gilderoy Lock­hart came slow­ly in­to view, seat­ed at a ta­ble sur­round­ed by large pic­tures of his own face, all wink­ing and flash­ing daz­zling­ly white teeth at the crowd. The re­al Lock­hart was wear­ing robes of for­get-​me-​not blue that ex­act­ly matched his eyes; his point­ed wiz­ard’s hat was set at a jaun­ty an­gle on his wavy hair.

A short, ir­ri­ta­ble-​look­ing man was danc­ing around tak­ing pho­tographs with a large black cam­era that emit­ted puffs of pur­ple smoke with ev­ery blind­ing flash.

“Out of the way, there,” he snarled at Ron, mov­ing back to get a bet­ter shot. “This is for the Dai­ly Prophet —”

“Big deal,” said Ron, rub­bing his foot where the pho­tog­ra­pher had stepped on it.

Gilderoy Lock­hart heard him. He looked up. He saw Ron — and then he saw Har­ry. He stared. Then he leapt to his feet and pos­itive­ly shout­ed, “It can’t be Har­ry Pot­ter?”

The crowd part­ed, whis­per­ing ex­cit­ed­ly; Lock­hart dived for­ward, seized Har­ry’s arm, and pulled him to the front. The crowd burst in­to ap­plause. Har­ry’s face burned as Lock­hart shook his hand for the pho­tog­ra­pher, who was click­ing away mad­ly, waft­ing thick smoke over the Weasleys.

“Nice big smile, Har­ry,” said Lock­hart, through his own gleam­ing teeth. “To­geth­er, you and I are worth the front page.”

When he fi­nal­ly let go of Har­ry’s hand, Har­ry could hard­ly feel his fin­gers. He tried to si­dle back over to the Weasleys, but Lock­hart threw an arm around his shoul­ders and clamped him tight­ly to his side.

“Ladies and gen­tle­men,” he said loud­ly, wav­ing for qui­et. “What an ex­traor­di­nary mo­ment this is! The per­fect mo­ment for me to make a lit­tle an­nounce­ment I’ve been sit­ting on for some time!

“When young Har­ry here stepped in­to Flour­ish and Blotts to­day, he on­ly want­ed to buy my au­to­bi­og­ra­phy — which I shall be hap­py to present him now, free of charge —” The crowd ap­plaud­ed again. “He had no idea,” Lock­hart con­tin­ued, giv­ing Har­ry a lit­tle shake that made his glass­es slip to the end of his nose, “that he would short­ly be get­ting much, much more than my book, Mag­ical Me. He and his school­mates will, in fact, be get­ting the re­al mag­ical me. Yes, ladies and gen­tle­men, I have great plea­sure and pride in an­nounc­ing that this Septem­ber, I will be tak­ing up the post of De­fense Against the Dark Arts teach­er at Hog­warts School of Witchcraft and Wiz­ardry!”

The crowd cheered and clapped and Har­ry found him­self be­ing pre­sent­ed with the en­tire works of Gilderoy Lock­hart. Stag­ger­ing slight­ly un­der their weight, he man­aged to make his way out of the lime­light to the edge of the room, where Gin­ny was stand­ing next to her new caul­dron.

“You have these,” Har­ry mum­bled to her, tip­ping the books in­to the caul­dron. “I’ll buy my own —”

“Bet you loved that, didn’t you, Pot­ter?” said a voice Har­ry had no trou­ble rec­og­niz­ing. He straight­ened up and found him­self face-​to-​face with Dra­co Mal­foy, who was wear­ing his usu­al sneer.

“Fa­mous Har­ry Pot­ter,” said Mal­foy. “Can’t even go in­to a book­shop with­out mak­ing the front page.”

“Leave him alone, he didn’t want all that!” said Gin­ny. It was the first time she had spo­ken in front of Har­ry. She was glar­ing at Mal­foy.

“Pot­ter, you’ve got your­self a girl­friend!” drawled Mal­foy. Gin­ny went scar­let as Ron and Hermione fought their way over, both clutch­ing stacks of Lock­hart’s books.

“Oh, it’s you,” said Ron, look­ing at Mal­foy as if he were some­thing un­pleas­ant on the sole of his shoe. “Bet you’re sur­prised to see Har­ry here, eh?”

“Not as sur­prised as I am to see you in a shop, Weasley,” re­tort­ed Mal­foy. “I sup­pose your par­ents will go hun­gry for a month to pay for all those.”

Ron went as red as Gin­ny. He dropped his books in­to the caul­dron, too, and start­ed to­ward Mal­foy, but Har­ry and Hermione grabbed the back of his jack­et.

“Ron!” said Mr. Weasley, strug­gling over with Fred and George. “What are you do­ing? It’s too crowd­ed in here, let’s go out­side.”

“Well, well, well — Arthur Weasley.”

It was Mr. Mal­foy. He stood with his hand on Dra­co’s shoul­der, sneer­ing in just the same way.

“Lu­cius,” said Mr. Weasley, nod­ding cold­ly.

“Busy time at the Min­istry, I hear,” said Mr. Mal­foy. “All those raids…I hope they’re pay­ing you over­time?”

He reached in­to Gin­ny’s caul­dron and ex­tract­ed, from amid the glossy Lock­hart books, a very old, very bat­tered copy of A Be­gin­ner’s Guide to Trans­fig­ura­tion.

“Ob­vi­ous­ly not,” Mr. Mal­foy said. “Dear me, what’s the use of be­ing a dis­grace to the name of wiz­ard if they don’t even pay you well for it?”

Mr. Weasley flushed dark­er than ei­ther Ron or Gin­ny.

“We have a very dif­fer­ent idea of what dis­graces the name of wiz­ard, Mal­foy,” he said.

“Clear­ly,” said Mr. Mal­foy, his pale eyes stray­ing to Mr. and Mrs. Granger, who were watch­ing ap­pre­hen­sive­ly. “The com­pa­ny you keep, Weasley…and I thought your fam­ily could sink no low­er.”

There was a thud of met­al as Gin­ny’s caul­dron went fly­ing; Mr. Weasley had thrown him­self at Mr. Mal­foy, knock­ing him back­ward in­to a book­shelf. Dozens of heavy spell­books came thun­der­ing down on all their heads; there was a yell of, “Get him, Dad!” from Fred or George; Mrs. Weasley was shriek­ing, “No, Arthur, no!”; the crowd stam­ped­ed back­ward, knock­ing more shelves over; “Gen­tle­men, please — please!” cried the as­sis­tant, and then, loud­er than all —

“Break it up, there, gents, break it up —”

Ha­grid was wad­ing to­ward them through the sea of books. In an in­stant he had pulled Mr. Weasley and Mr. Mal­foy apart. Mr. Weasley had a cut lip and Mr. Mal­foy had been hit in the eye by an En­cy­clo­pe­dia of Toad­stools. He was still hold­ing Gin­ny’s old Trans­fig­ura­tion book. He thrust it at her, his eyes glit­ter­ing with mal­ice.

“Here, girl — take your book — it’s the best your fa­ther can give you —” Pulling him­self out of Ha­grid’s grip he beck­oned to Dra­co and swept from the shop.

“Yeh should’ve ig­nored him, Arthur,” said Ha­grid, al­most lift­ing Mr. Weasley off his feet as he straight­ened his robes. “Rot­ten ter the core, the whole fam­ily, ev­ery­one knows that — no Mal­foy’s worth lis­tenin’ ter — bad blood, that’s what it is — come on now — let’s get out­ta here.”

The as­sis­tant looked as though he want­ed to stop them leav­ing, but he bare­ly came up to Ha­grid’s waist and seemed to think bet­ter of it. They hur­ried up the street, the Grangers shak­ing with fright and Mrs. Weasley be­side her­self with fury.

“A fine ex­am­ple to set for your chil­dren…brawl­ing in pub­lic…what Gilderoy Lock­hart must’ve thought —”

“He was pleased,” said Fred. “Didn’t you hear him as we were leav­ing? He was ask­ing that bloke from the Dai­ly Prophet if he’d be able to work the fight in­to his re­port — said it was all pub­lic­ity —”

But it was a sub­dued group that head­ed back to the fire­side in the Leaky Caul­dron, where Har­ry, the Weasleys, and all their shop­ping would be trav­el­ing back to the Bur­row us­ing Floo pow­der. They said good-​bye to the Grangers, who were leav­ing the pub for the Mug­gle street on the oth­er side; Mr. Weasley start­ed to ask them how bus stops worked, but stopped quick­ly at the look on Mrs. Weasley’s face.

Har­ry took off his glass­es and put them safe­ly in his pock­et be­fore help­ing him­self to Floo pow­der. It def­inite­ly wasn’t his fa­vorite way to trav­el.





HP 2 - Harry Potter and The Chamber of Secrets





CHAPTER FIVE




THE WHOMP­ING WIL­LOW



T he end of the sum­mer va­ca­tion came too quick­ly for Har­ry’s lik­ing. He was look­ing for­ward to get­ting back to Hog­warts, but his month at the Bur­row had been the hap­pi­est of his life. It was dif­fi­cult not to feel jeal­ous of Ron when he thought of the Durs­leys and the sort of wel­come he could ex­pect next time he turned up on Priv­et Drive.

On their last evening, Mrs. Weasley con­jured up a sump­tu­ous din­ner that in­clud­ed all of Har­ry’s fa­vorite things, end­ing with a mouth­wa­ter­ing trea­cle pud­ding. Fred and George round­ed off the evening with a dis­play of Fil­ibuster fire­works; they filled the kitchen with red and blue stars that bounced from ceil­ing to wall for at least half an hour. Then it was time for a last mug of hot choco­late and bed.

It took a long while to get start­ed next morn­ing. They were up at dawn, but some­how they still seemed to have a great deal to do. Mrs. Weasley dashed about in a bad mood look­ing for spare socks and quills; peo­ple kept col­lid­ing on the stairs, half-​dressed with bits of toast in their hands; and Mr. Weasley near­ly broke his neck, trip­ping over a stray chick­en as he crossed the yard car­ry­ing Gin­ny’s trunk to the car.

Har­ry couldn’t see how eight peo­ple, six large trunks, two owls, and a rat were go­ing to fit in­to one small Ford An­glia. He had reck­oned, of course, with­out the spe­cial fea­tures that Mr. Weasley had added.

“Not a word to Mol­ly,” he whis­pered to Har­ry as he opened the. trunk and showed him how it had been mag­ical­ly ex­pand­ed so that the lug­gage fit­ted eas­ily.

When at last they were all in the car, Mrs. Weasley glanced in­to the back seat, where Har­ry, Ron, Fred, George, and Per­cy were all sit­ting com­fort­ably side by side, and said, “Mug­gles do know more than we give them cred­it for, don’t they?” She and Gin­ny got in­to the front seat, which had been stretched so that it re­sem­bled a park bench. “I mean, you’d nev­er know it was this roomy from the out­side, would you?”

Mr. Weasley start­ed up the en­gine and they trun­dled out of the yard, Har­ry turn­ing back for a last look at the house. He bare­ly had time to won­der when he’d see it again when they were back. George had for­got­ten his box of Fil­ibuster fire­works. Five min­utes af­ter that, they skid­ded to a halt in the yard so that Fred could run in for his broom­stick. They had al­most reached the high­way when Gin­ny shrieked that she’d left her di­ary. By the time she had clam­bered back in­to the car, they were run­ning very late, and tem­pers were run­ning high.

Mr. Weasley glanced at his watch and then at his wife.

“Mol­ly, dear —”

“No, Arthur —–”

“No one would see — this lit­tle but­ton here is an In­vis­ibil­ity Boost­er I in­stalled — that’d get us up in the air — then we fly above the clouds. We’d be there in ten min­utes and no one would be any the wis­er —”

“I said no, Arthur, not in broad day­light —”

They reached King’s Cross at a quar­ter to eleven. Mr. Weasley dashed across the road to get trol­leys for their trunks and they all hur­ried in­to the sta­tion.

Har­ry had caught the Hog­warts Ex­press the pre­vi­ous year. The tricky part was get­ting on­to plat­form nine and three-​quar­ters, which wasn’t vis­ible to the Mug­gle eye. What you had to do was walk through the sol­id bar­ri­er di­vid­ing plat­forms nine and ten. It didn’t hurt, but it had to be done care­ful­ly so that none of the Mug­gles no­ticed you van­ish­ing.

“Per­cy first,” said Mrs. Weasley, look­ing ner­vous­ly at the clock over­head, which showed they had on­ly five min­utes to dis­ap­pear ca­su­al­ly through the bar­ri­er.

Per­cy strode briskly for­ward and van­ished. Mr. Weasley went next; Fred and George fol­lowed.

“I’ll take Gin­ny and you two come right af­ter us,” Mrs. Weasley told Har­ry and Ron, grab­bing Gin­ny’s hand and set­ting off. In the blink of an eye they were gone.

“Let’s go to­geth­er, we’ve on­ly got a minute,” Ron said to Har­ry.

Har­ry made sure that Hed­wig’s cage was safe­ly wedged on top of his trunk and wheeled his trol­ley around to face the bar­ri­er. He felt per­fect­ly con­fi­dent; this wasn’t near­ly as un­com­fort­able as us­ing Floo pow­der. Both of them bent low over the han­dles of their trol­leys and walked pur­pose­ful­ly to­ward the bar­ri­er, gath­er­ing speed. A few feet away from it, they broke in­to a run and —

CRASH.

Both trol­leys hit the bar­ri­er and bounced back­ward; Ron’s trunk fell off with a loud thump, Har­ry was knocked off his feet, and Hed­wig’s cage bounced on­to the shiny floor, and she rolled away, shriek­ing in­dig­nant­ly; peo­ple all around them stared and a guard near­by yelled, “What in blazes d’you think you’re do­ing?”

“Lost con­trol of the trol­ley,” Har­ry gasped, clutch­ing his ribs as he got up. Ron ran to pick up Hed­wig, who was caus­ing such a scene that there was a lot of mut­ter­ing about cru­el­ty to an­imals from the sur­round­ing crowd.

“Why can’t we get through?” Har­ry hissed to Ron.

“I dun­no —”

Ron looked wild­ly around. A dozen cu­ri­ous peo­ple were still watch­ing them.

“We’re go­ing to miss the train,” Ron whis­pered. “I don’t un­der­stand why the gate­way’s sealed it­self —”

Har­ry looked up at the gi­ant clock with a sick­en­ing feel­ing in the pit of his stom­ach. Ten sec­onds…nine sec­onds …

He wheeled his trol­ley for­ward cau­tious­ly un­til it was right against the bar­ri­er and pushed with all his might. The met­al re­mained sol­id.

Three sec­onds…two sec­onds…one sec­ond…

“It’s gone,” said Ron, sound­ing stunned. “The train’s left. What if Mum and Dad can’t get back through to us? Have you got any Mug­gle mon­ey?”

Har­ry gave a hol­low laughed. “The Durs­leys haven’t giv­en me pock­et mon­ey for about six years.”

Ron pressed his ear to the cold bar­ri­er.

“Can’t hear a thing,” he said tense­ly, “What’re we go­ing to do? I don’t know how long it’ll take Mum and Dad to get back to us.”

They looked around. Peo­ple were still watch­ing them, main­ly be­cause of Hed­wig’s con­tin­uing screech­es.

“I think we’d bet­ter go and wait by the car,” said Har­ry. “We’re at­tract­ing too much at­ten —”

“Har­ry!” said Ron, his eyes gleam­ing. “The car!”

“What about it?”

“We can fly the car to Hog­warts!”

“But I thought —”

“We’re stuck, right? And we’ve got to get to school, haven’t we? And even un­der­age wiz­ards are al­lowed to use mag­ic if it’s a re­al emer­gen­cy, sec­tion nine­teen or some­thing of the Re­stric­tion of Thingy —”

“But your Mum and Dad…” said Har­ry, push­ing against the bar­ri­er again in the vain hope that it would give way. “How will they get home?”

“They don’t need the car!” said Ron im­pa­tient­ly. “They know how to Ap­pa­rate! You know, just van­ish and reap­pear at home! They on­ly both­er with Floo pow­der and the car be­cause we’re all un­der­age and we’re not al­lowed to Ap­pa­rate yet.…”

Har­ry’s feel­ing of pan­ic turned sud­den­ly to ex­cite­ment.

“Can you fly it?”

“No, prob­lem,” said Ron, wheel­ing his trol­ley around to face the ex­it. “C’mon, let’s go. If we hur­ry we’ll be able to fol­low the Hog­warts Ex­press —”

And they marched off through the crowd of cu­ri­ous Mug­gles, out of the sta­tion and back on­to the side road where the old Ford An­glia was parked.

Ron un­locked the cav­ernous trunk with a se­ries of taps from his wand. They heaved their lug­gage back in, put Hed­wig on the back seat, and got in­to the front.

“Check that no one’s watch­ing,” said Ron, start­ing the ig­ni­tion with an­oth­er tap of his wand. Har­ry stuck his head out of the win­dow: Traf­fic was rum­bling along the main road ahead, but their street was emp­ty.

“Okay,” he said.

Ron pressed a tiny sil­ver but­ton on the dash­board. The car around them van­ished — and so did they. Har­ry could feel the seat vi­brat­ing be­neath him, hear the en­gine, feel his hands on his knees and his glass­es on his nose, but for all he could see, he had be­come a pair of eye­balls, float­ing a few feet above the ground in a dingy street full of parked cars.

“Let’s go,” said Ron’s voice from his right.

And the ground and the dirty build­ings on ei­ther side fell away, drop­ping out of sight as the car rose; in sec­onds, the whole of Lon­don lay, smoky and glit­ter­ing, be­low them.

Then there was a pop­ping noise and the car, Har­ry, and Ron reap­peared.

“Uh-​oh,” said Ron, jab­bing at the In­vis­ibil­ity Boost­er. “It’s faulty —”

Both of them pum­meled it. The car van­ished. Then it flick­ered back again.

“Hold on!” Ron yelled, and he slammed his foot on the ac­cel­er­ator; they shot straight in­to the low, wool­ly clouds and ev­ery­thing turned dull and fog­gy.

“Now what?” said Har­ry, blink­ing at the sol­id mass of cloud press­ing in on them from all sides.

“We need to see the train to know what di­rec­tion to go in,” said Ron.

“Dip back down again — quick­ly —”

They dropped back be­neath the clouds and twist­ed around in their seats, squint­ing at the ground.

“I can see it!” Har­ry yelled. “Right ahead — there!”

The Hog­warts Ex­press was streak­ing along be­low them like a scar­let snake.

“Due north,” said Ron, check­ing the com­pass on the dash­board. “Okay, we’ll just have to check on it ev­ery half hour or so — hold on —”

And they shot up through the clouds. A minute lat­er, they burst out in­to a blaze of sun­light.

It was a dif­fer­ent world. The wheels of the car skimmed the sea of fluffy cloud, the sky a bright, end­less blue un­der the blind­ing white sun.

“All we’ve got to wor­ry about now are air­planes,” said Ron.

They looked at each oth­er and start­ed to laugh; for a long time, they couldn’t stop.

It was as though they had been plunged in­to a fab­ulous dream. This, thought Har­ry, was sure­ly the on­ly way to trav­el — past swirls and tur­rets of snowy cloud, in a car full of hot, bright sun­light, with a fat pack of tof­fees in the glove com­part­ment, and the prospect of see­ing Fred’s and George’s jeal­ous faces when they land­ed smooth­ly and spec­tac­ular­ly on the sweep­ing lawn in front of Hog­warts cas­tle.

They made reg­ular checks on the train as they flew far­ther and far­ther north, each dip be­neath the clouds show­ing them a dif­fer­ent view. Lon­don was soon far be­hind them, re­placed by neat green fields that gave way in turn to wide, pur­plish moors, a great city alive with cars like mul­ti­col­ored ants, vil­lages with tiny toy church­es.

Sev­er­al un­event­ful hours lat­er, how­ev­er, Har­ry had to ad­mit that some of the fun was wear­ing off. The tof­fees had made them ex­treme­ly thirsty and they had noth­ing to drink. He and Ron had pulled off their sweaters, but Har­ry’s T-​shirt was stick­ing to the back of his seat and his glass­es kept slid­ing down to the end of his sweaty nose. He had stopped notic­ing the fan­tas­tic cloud shapes now and was think­ing long­ing­ly of the train miles be­low, where you could buy ice-​cold pump­kin juice from a trol­ley pushed by a plump witch. Why hadn’t they been able to get on­to plat­form nine and three-​quar­ters?

“Can’t be much fur­ther, can it?” croaked Ron, hours lat­er still, as the sun start­ed to sink in­to their floor of cloud, stain­ing it a deep pink. “Ready for an­oth­er check on the train?”

It was still right be­low them, wind­ing its way past a snow­capped moun­tain. It was much dark­er be­neath the canopy of clouds.

Ron put his foot on the ac­cel­er­ator and drove them up­ward again, but as he did so, the en­gine be­gan to whine.

Har­ry and Ron ex­changed ner­vous glances.

“It’s prob­ably just tired,” said Ron. “It’s nev­er been this far be­fore.…”

And they both pre­tend­ed not to no­tice the whin­ing grow­ing loud­er and loud­er as the sky be­came steadi­ly dark­er. Stars were blos­som­ing in the black­ness. Har­ry pulled his sweater back on, try­ing to ig­nore the way the wind­shield wipers were now wav­ing fee­bly, as though in protest.

“Not far,” said Ron, more to the car than to Har­ry, “not far now,” and he pat­ted the dash­board ner­vous­ly.

When they flew back be­neath the clouds a lit­tle while lat­er, they had to squint through the dark­ness for a land­mark they knew.

“There!” Har­ry shout­ed, mak­ing Ron and Hed­wig jump. “Straight ahead!”

Sil­hou­et­ted on the dark hori­zon, high on the cliff over the lake, stood the many tur­rets and tow­ers of Hog­warts cas­tle.

But the car had be­gun to shud­der and was los­ing speed.

“Come on,” Ron said ca­jol­ing­ly, giv­ing the steer­ing wheel a lit­tle shake, “near­ly there, come on —”

The en­gine groaned. Nar­row jets of steam were is­su­ing from un­der the hood. Har­ry found him­self grip­ping the edges of his seat very hard as they flew to­ward the lake.

The car gave a nasty wob­ble. Glanc­ing out of his win­dow, Har­ry saw the smooth, black, glassy sur­face of the wa­ter, a mile be­low. Ron’s knuck­les were white on the steer­ing wheel. The car wob­bled again.

“Come on,” Ron mut­tered.

They were over the lake — the cas­tle was right ahead — Ron put his foot down.

There was a loud clunk, a splut­ter, and the en­gine died com­plete­ly.

“Uh-​oh,” said Ron, in­to the si­lence.

The nose of the car dropped. They were falling, gath­er­ing speed, head­ing straight for the sol­id cas­tle wall.

“Noooooo!” Ron yelled, swing­ing the steer­ing wheel around; they missed the dark stone wall by inch­es as the car turned in a great arc, soar­ing over the dark green­hous­es, then the veg­etable patch, and then out over the black lawns, los­ing al­ti­tude all the time.

Ron let go of the steer­ing wheel com­plete­ly and pulled his wand out of his back pock­et —

“STOP! STOP!” he yelled, whack­ing the dash­board and the wind­shield, but they were still plum­met­ing, the ground fly­ing up to­ward them —

“WATCH OUT FOR THAT TREE!” Har­ry bel­lowed, lung­ing for the steer­ing wheel, but too late —

CRUNCH.

With an ear­split­ting bang of met­al on wood, they hit the thick tree trunk and dropped to the ground with a heavy jolt. Steam was bil­low­ing from un­der the crum­pled hood; Hed­wig was shriek­ing in ter­ror; a golf­ball-​size lump was throb­bing on Har­ry’s head where he had hit the wind­shield; and to his right, Ron let out a low, de­spair­ing groan.

“Are you okay?” Har­ry said ur­gent­ly.

“My wand,” said Ron, in a shaky voice. “Look at my wand —”

It had snapped, al­most in two; the tip was dan­gling limply, held on by a few splin­ters.

Har­ry opened his mouth to say he was sure they’d be able to mend it up at the school, but he nev­er even got start­ed. At that very mo­ment, some­thing hit his side of the car with the force of a charg­ing bull, send­ing him lurch­ing side­ways in­to Ron, just as an equal­ly heavy blow hit the roof.

“What’s hap­pen —?”

Ron gasped, star­ing through the wind­shield, and Har­ry looked around just in time to see a branch as thick as a python smash in­to it. The tree they had hit was at­tack­ing them. Its trunk was bent al­most dou­ble, and its gnarled boughs were pum­mel­ing ev­ery inch of the car it could reach.

“Aaargh!” said Ron as an­oth­er twist­ed limb punched a large dent in­to his door; the wind­shield was now trem­bling un­der a hail of blows from knuck­le-​like twigs and a branch as thick as a bat­ter­ing ram was pound­ing fu­ri­ous­ly on the roof, which seemed to be cav­ing in.

“Run for it!” Ron shout­ed, throw­ing his full weight against his door, but next sec­ond he had been knocked back­ward in­to Har­ry’s lap by a vi­cious up­per­cut from an­oth­er branch.

“We’re done for!” he moaned as the ceil­ing sagged, but sud­den­ly the floor of the car was vi­brat­ing — the en­gine had restart­ed.

“Re­verse!” Har­ry yelled, and the car shot back­ward; the tree was still try­ing to hit them; they could hear its roots creak­ing as it al­most ripped it­self up, lash­ing out at them as they sped out of reach.

“That,” pant­ed Ron, “was close. Well done, car —”

The car, how­ev­er, had reached the end of its teth­er. With two sharp clunks, the doors flew open and Har­ry felt his seat tip side­ways: Next thing he knew he was sprawled on the damp ground. Loud thuds told him that the car was eject­ing their lug­gage from the trunk; Hed­wig’s cage flew through the air and burst open; she rose out of it with an an­gry screech and sped off to­ward the cas­tle with­out a back­ward look. Then, dent­ed, scratched, and steam­ing, the car rum­bled off in­to the dark­ness, its rear lights blaz­ing an­gri­ly.

“Come back!” Ron yelled af­ter it, bran­dish­ing his bro­ken wand. “Dad’ll kill me!”

But the car dis­ap­peared from view with one last snort from its ex­haust.

“Can you be­lieve our luck?” said Ron mis­er­ably, bend­ing down to pick up Scab­bers. “Of all the trees we could’ve hit, we had to get one that hits back.”

He glanced over his shoul­der at the an­cient tree, which was still flail­ing its branch­es threat­en­ing­ly.

“Come on,” said Har­ry weari­ly, “we’d bet­ter get up to the school.…”

It wasn’t at all the tri­umphant ar­rival they had pic­tured. Stiff, cold, and bruised, they seized the ends of their trunks and be­gan drag­ging them up the grassy slope, to­ward the great oak front doors.

“I think the feast’s al­ready start­ed,” said Ron, drop­ping his trunk at the foot of the front steps and cross­ing qui­et­ly to look through a bright­ly lit win­dow. “Hey — Har­ry — come and look — it’s the Sort­ing!”

Har­ry hur­ried over and, to­geth­er, he and Ron peered in at the Great Hall.

In­nu­mer­able can­dles were hov­er­ing in midair over four long, crowd­ed ta­bles, mak­ing the gold­en plates and gob­lets sparkle. Over­head, the be­witched ceil­ing, which al­ways mir­rored the sky out­side, sparkled with stars.

Through the for­est of point­ed black Hog­warts hats, Har­ry saw a long line of scared-​look­ing first years fil­ing in­to the Hall. Gin­ny was among them, eas­ily vis­ible be­cause of her vivid Weasley hair. Mean­while, Pro­fes­sor McG­ona­gall, a be­spec­ta­cled witch with her hair in a tight bun, was plac­ing the fa­mous Hog­warts Sort­ing Hat on a stool be­fore the new­com­ers.

Ev­ery year, this aged old hat, patched, frayed, and dirty, sort­ed new stu­dents in­to the four Hog­warts hous­es (Gryffind­or, Huf­flepuff, Raven­claw, and Slytherin). Har­ry well re­mem­bered putting it on, ex­act­ly one year ago, and wait­ing, pet­ri­fied, for its de­ci­sion as it mut­tered aloud in his ear. For a few hor­ri­ble sec­onds he had feared that the hat was go­ing to put him in Slytherin, the house that had turned out more Dark witch­es and wiz­ards than any oth­er but he had end­ed up in Gryffind­or, along with Ron, Hermione, and the rest of the Weasleys. Last term, Har­ry and Ron had helped Gryffind­or win the House Cham­pi­onship, beat­ing Slytherin for the first time in sev­en years.

A very small, mousy-​haired boy had been called for­ward to place the hat on his head. Har­ry’s eyes wan­dered past him to where Pro­fes­sor Dum­ble­dore, the head­mas­ter, sat watch­ing the Sort­ing from the staff ta­ble, his long sil­ver beard and half-​moon glass­es shin­ing bright­ly in the can­dle­light. Sev­er­al seats along, Har­ry saw Gilderoy Lock­hart, dressed in robes of aqua­ma­rine. And there at the end was Ha­grid, huge and hairy, drink­ing deeply from his gob­let.

“Hang on…” Har­ry mut­tered to Ron. “There’s an emp­ty chair at the staff ta­ble.…Where’s Snape?”

Pro­fes­sor Severus Snape was Har­ry’s least fa­vorite teach­er. Har­ry al­so hap­pened to be Snape’s least fa­vorite stu­dent. Cru­el, sar­cas­tic, and dis­liked by ev­ery­body ex­cept the stu­dents from his own house (Slytherin), Snape taught Po­tions.

“Maybe he’s ill!” said Ron hope­ful­ly.

“Maybe he’s left,” said Har­ry, “be­cause he missed out on the De­fense Against Dark Arts job again!”

“Or he might have been sacked!” said Ron en­thu­si­as­ti­cal­ly. “I mean, ev­ery­one hates him —”

“Or maybe,” said a very cold voice right be­hind them, “he’s wait­ing to hear why you two didn’t ar­rive on the school train.”

Har­ry spun around. There, his black robes rip­pling in a cold breeze, stood Severus Snape. He was a thin man with sal­low skin, a hooked nose, and greasy, shoul­der-​length black hair, and at this mo­ment, he was smil­ing in a way that told Har­ry he and Ron were in very deep trou­ble.

“Fol­low me,” said Snape.

Not dar­ing even to look at each oth­er, Har­ry and Ron fol­lowed Snape up the steps in­to the vast, echo­ing en­trance hall, which was lit with flam­ing torch­es. A de­li­cious smell of food was waft­ing from the Great Hall, but Snape led them away from the warmth and light, down a nar­row stone stair­case that led in­to the dun­geons.

“In!” he said, open­ing a door halfway down the cold pas­sage­way and point­ing.

They en­tered Snape’s of­fice, shiv­er­ing. The shad­owy walls were lined with shelves of large glass jars, in which float­ed all man­ner of re­volt­ing things Har­ry didn’t re­al­ly want to know the name of at the mo­ment. The fire­place was dark and emp­ty. Snape closed the door and turned to look at them.

“So,” he said soft­ly, “the train isn’t good enough for the fa­mous Har­ry Pot­ter and his faith­ful side­kick Weasley. Want­ed to ar­rive with a bang, did we, boys?”

“No, sir, it was the bar­ri­er at King’s Cross, it —”

“Si­lence!” said Snape cold­ly. “What have you done with the car?” Ron gulped. This wasn’t the first time Snape had giv­en Har­ry the im­pres­sion of be­ing able to read minds. But a mo­ment lat­er, he un­der­stood, as Snape un­rolled to­day’s is­sue of the Evening Prophet. “You were seen,” he hissed, show­ing them the head­line: FLY­ING FORD AN­GLIA MYS­TI­FIES MUG­GLES. He be­gan to read aloud: “Two Mug­gles in Lon­don, con­vinced they saw an old car fly­ing over the Post Of­fice tow­er…at noon in Nor­folk, Mrs. Het­ty Bayliss, while hang­ing out her wash­ing…Mr. An­gus Fleet, of Pee­bles, re­port­ed to po­lice…Six or sev­en Mug­gles in all. I be­lieve your fa­ther works in the Mis­use of Mug­gle Ar­ti­facts Of­fice?” he said, look­ing up at Ron and smil­ing still more nas­ti­ly. “Dear, dear…his own son…”

Har­ry felt as though he’d just been wal­loped in the stom­ach by one of the mad tree’s larg­er branch­es. If any­one found out Mr. Weasley had be­witched the car…he hadn’t thought of that.…

“I no­ticed, in my search of the park, that con­sid­er­able dam­age seems to have been done to a very valu­able Whomp­ing Wil­low,” Snape went on.

“That tree did more dam­age to us than we —” Ron blurt­ed out.

“Si­lence!” snapped Snape again. “Most un­for­tu­nate­ly, you are not in my House and the de­ci­sion to ex­pel you does not rest with me. I shall go and fetch the peo­ple who do have that hap­py pow­er. You will wait here.”

Har­ry and Ron stared at each oth­er, white-​faced. Har­ry didn’t feel hun­gry any more. He now felt ex­treme­ly sick. He tried not to look at a large, slimy some­thing sus­pend­ed in green liq­uid on a shelf be­hind Snape’s desk. If Snape had gone to fetch Pro­fes­sor McG­ona­gall, head of Gryffind­or House, they were hard­ly any bet­ter off. She might be fair­er than Snape, but she was still ex­treme­ly strict.

Ten min­utes lat­er, Snape re­turned, and sure enough it was Pro­fes­sor McG­ona­gall who ac­com­pa­nied him. Har­ry had seen Pro­fes­sor McG­ona­gall an­gry on sev­er­al oc­ca­sions, but ei­ther he had for­got­ten just how thin her mouth could go, or he had nev­er seen her this an­gry be­fore. She raised her wand the mo­ment she en­tered; Har­ry and Ron both flinched, but she mere­ly point­ed it at the emp­ty fire­place, where flames sud­den­ly erupt­ed.

“Sit,” she said, and they both backed in­to chairs by the fire.

“Ex­plain,” she said, her glass­es glint­ing omi­nous­ly.

Ron launched in­to the sto­ry, start­ing with the bar­ri­er at the sta­tion re­fus­ing to let them through.

“— so we had no choice, Pro­fes­sor, we couldn’t get on the train.”

“Why didn’t you send us a let­ter by owl? I be­lieve you have an owl?” Pro­fes­sor McG­ona­gall said cold­ly to Har­ry.

Har­ry gaped at her. Now she said it, that seemed the ob­vi­ous thing to have done.

“I — I didn’t think —”

“That,” said Pro­fes­sor McG­ona­gall, “is ob­vi­ous.”

There was a knock on the of­fice door and Snape, now look­ing hap­pi­er than ev­er, opened it. There stood the head­mas­ter, Pro­fes­sor Dum­ble­dore.

Har­ry’s whole body went numb. Dum­ble­dore was look­ing un­usu­al­ly grave. He stared down his very crooked nose at them, and Har­ry sud­den­ly found him­self wish­ing he and Ron were still be­ing beat­en up by the Whomp­ing Wil­low.

There was a long si­lence. Then Dum­ble­dore said, “Please ex­plain why you did this.”

It would have been bet­ter if he had shout­ed. Har­ry hat­ed the dis­ap­point­ment in his voice. For some rea­son, he was un­able to look Dum­ble­dore in the eyes, and spoke in­stead to his knees. He told Dum­ble­dore ev­ery­thing ex­cept that Mr. Weasley owned the be­witched car, mak­ing it sound as though he and Ron had hap­pened to find a fly­ing car parked out­side the sta­tion. He knew Dum­ble­dore would see through this at once, but Dum­ble­dore asked no ques­tions about the car. When Har­ry had fin­ished, he mere­ly con­tin­ued to peer at them through his spec­ta­cles.

“We’ll go and get our stuff,” said Ron in a hope­less sort of voice.

“What are you talk­ing about, Weasley?” barked Pro­fes­sor McG­ona­gall.

“Well, you’re ex­pelling us, aren’t you?” said Ron.

Har­ry looked quick­ly at Dum­ble­dore.

“Not to­day, Mr. Weasley,” said Dum­ble­dore. “But I must im­press up­on both of you the se­ri­ous­ness of what you have done. I will be writ­ing to both your fam­ilies tonight. I must al­so warn you that if you do any­thing like this again, I will have no choice but to ex­pel you.”

Snape looked as though Christ­mas had been can­celed. He cleared his throat and said, “Pro­fes­sor Dum­ble­dore, these boys have flout­ed the De­cree for the Re­stric­tion of Un­der­age Wiz­ardry, caused se­ri­ous dam­age to an old and valu­able tree — sure­ly acts of this na­ture —”

“It will be for Pro­fes­sor McG­ona­gall to de­cide on these boys’ pun­ish­ments, Severus,” said Dum­ble­dore calm­ly. “They are in her House and are there­fore her re­spon­si­bil­ity.” He turned to Pro­fes­sor McG­ona­gall. “I must go back to the feast, Min­er­va, I’ve got to give out a few no­tices. Come, Severus, there’s a de­li­cious-​look­ing cus­tard tart I want to sam­ple —”

Snape shot a look of pure ven­om at Har­ry and Ron as he al­lowed him­self to be swept out of his of­fice, leav­ing them alone with Pro­fes­sor McG­ona­gall, who was still eye­ing them like a wrath­ful ea­gle.

“You’d bet­ter get along to the hos­pi­tal wing, Weasley, you’re bleed­ing.”

“Not much,” said Ron, hasti­ly wip­ing the cut over his eye with his sleeve.

“Pro­fes­sor, I want­ed to watch my sis­ter be­ing Sort­ed —”

“The Sort­ing Cer­emo­ny is over,” said Pro­fes­sor McG­ona­gall. “Your sis­ter is al­so in Gryffind­or.”

“Oh, good,” said Ron.

“And speak­ing of Gryffind­or —” Pro­fes­sor McG­ona­gall said sharply, but Har­ry cut in: “Pro­fes­sor, when we took the car, term hadn’t start­ed, so — so Gryffind­or shouldn’t re­al­ly have points tak­en from it — should it?” he fin­ished, watch­ing her anx­ious­ly.

Pro­fes­sor McG­ona­gall gave him a pierc­ing look, but he was sure she had al­most smiled. Her mouth looked less thin, any­way.

“I will not take any points from Gryffind­or,” she said, and Har­ry’s heart light­ened con­sid­er­ably. “But you will both get a de­ten­tion.” It was bet­ter than Har­ry had ex­pect­ed. As for Dum­ble­dore’s writ­ing to the Durs­leys, that was noth­ing. Har­ry knew per­fect­ly well they’d just be dis­ap­point­ed that the Whomp­ing Wil­low hadn’t squashed him flat.

Pro­fes­sor McG­ona­gall raised her wand again and point­ed it at Snape’s desk. A large plate of sand­wich­es, two sil­ver gob­lets, and a jug of iced pump­kin juice ap­peared with a pop.

“You will eat in here and then go straight up to your dor­mi­to­ry,” she said. “I must al­so re­turn to the feast.”

When the door had closed be­hind her, Ron let out a long, low whis­tle.

“I thought we’d had it,” he said, grab­bing a sand­wich.

“So did I,” said Har­ry, tak­ing one, too.

“Can you be­lieve our luck, though?” said Ron thick­ly through a mouth­ful of chick­en and ham. “Fred and George must’ve flown that car five or six times and no Mug­gle ev­er saw them.” He swal­lowed and took an­oth­er huge bite. “Why couldn’t we get through the bar­ri­er?”

Har­ry shrugged. “We’ll have to watch our step from now on, though,” he said, tak­ing a grate­ful swig of pump­kin juice. “Wish we could’ve gone up to the feast.…”

“She didn’t want us show­ing off,” said Ron sage­ly. “Doesn’t want peo­ple to think it’s clever, ar­riv­ing by fly­ing car.”

When they had eat­en as many sand­wich­es as they could (the plate kept re­fill­ing it­self) they rose and left the of­fice, tread­ing the fa­mil­iar path to Gryffind­or Tow­er. The cas­tle was qui­et; it seemed that the feast was over. They walked past mut­ter­ing por­traits and creak­ing suits of ar­mor, and climbed nar­row flights of stone stairs, un­til at last they reached the pas­sage where the se­cret en­trance to Gryffind­or Tow­er was hid­den, be­hind an oil paint­ing of a very fat wom­an in a pink silk dress.

“Pass­word?” she said as they ap­proached.

“Er —” said Har­ry.

They didn’t know the new year’s pass­word, not hav­ing met a Gryffind­or pre­fect yet, but help came al­most im­me­di­ate­ly; they heard hur­ry­ing feet be­hind them and turned to see Hermione dash­ing to­ward them.

“There you are! Where have you been? The most ridicu­lous ru­mors — some­one said you’d been ex­pelled for crash­ing a fly­ing car!”

“Well, we haven’t been ex­pelled,” Har­ry as­sured her.

“You’re not telling me you did fly here?” said Hermione, sound­ing al­most as se­vere as Pro­fes­sor McG­ona­gall.

“Skip the lec­ture,” said Ron im­pa­tient­ly, “and tell us the new pass­word.”

“It’s ‘wat­tlebird,’” said Hermione im­pa­tient­ly, “but that’s not the point —”

Her words were cut short, how­ev­er, as the por­trait of the fat la­dy swung open and there was a sud­den storm of clap­ping. It looked as though the whole of Gryffind­or House was still awake, packed in­to the cir­cu­lar com­mon room, stand­ing on the lop­sid­ed ta­bles and squashy arm­chairs, wait­ing for them to ar­rive. Arms reached through the por­trait hole to pull Har­ry and Ron in­side, leav­ing Hermione to scram­ble in af­ter them.

“Bril­liant!” yelled Lee Jor­dan. “In­spired! What an en­trance! Fly­ing a car right in­to the Whomp­ing Wil­low, peo­ple’ll be talk­ing about that one for years —”

“Good for you,” said a fifth year Har­ry had nev­er spo­ken to; some­one was pat­ting him on the back as though he’d just won a marathon; Fred and George pushed their way to the front of the crowd and said to­geth­er, “Why couldn’t we’ve come in the car, eh?”

Ron was scar­let in the face, grin­ning em­bar­rass­ed­ly, but Har­ry could see one per­son who didn’t look hap­py at all. Per­cy was vis­ible over the heads of some ex­cit­ed first years, and he seemed to be try­ing to get near enough to start telling them off. Har­ry nudged Ron in the ribs and nod­ded in Per­cy’s di­rec­tion. Ron got the point at once.

“Got to get up­stairs — bit tired,” he said, and the two of them start­ed push­ing their way to­ward the door on the oth­er side of the room, which led to a spi­ral stair­case and the dor­mi­to­ries.

“‘Night,” Har­ry called back to Hermione, who was wear­ing a scowl just like Per­cy’s.

They man­aged to get to the oth­er side of the com­mon room, still hav­ing their backs slapped, and gained the peace of the stair­case. They hur­ried up it, right to the top, and at last reached the door of their old dor­mi­to­ry, which now had a sign on it say­ing SEC­OND YEARS. They en­tered the fa­mil­iar, cir­cu­lar room, with its five four-​posters hung with red vel­vet and its high, nar­row win­dows. Their trunks had been brought up for them and stood at the ends of their beds.

Ron grinned guilti­ly at Har­ry.

“I know I shouldn’t’ve en­joyed that or any­thing, but…”

The dor­mi­to­ry door flew open and in came the oth­er sec­ond year Gryffind­or boys, Sea­mus Finni­gan, Dean Thomas, and Neville Long­bot­tom.

“Un­be­liev­able!” beamed Sea­mus.

“Cool,” said Dean.

“Amaz­ing,” said Neville, awestruck.

Har­ry couldn’t help it. He grinned, too.





HP 2 - Harry Potter and The Chamber of Secrets





CHAPTER SIX




GILDEROY LOCK­HART



T he next day, how­ev­er, Har­ry bare­ly grinned once. Things start­ed to go down­hill from break­fast in the Great Hall. The four long house ta­bles were laden with tureens of por­ridge, plates of kip­pers, moun­tains of toast, and dish­es of eggs and ba­con, be­neath the en­chant­ed ceil­ing (to­day, a dull, cloudy gray). Har­ry and Ron sat down at the Gryffind­or ta­ble next to Hermione, who had her copy of Voy­ages with Vam­pires propped open against a milk jug. There was a slight stiff­ness in the way she said “Morn­ing,” which told Har­ry that she was still dis­ap­prov­ing of the way they had ar­rived. Neville Long­bot­tom, on the oth­er hand, greet­ed them cheer­ful­ly. Neville was a round-​faced and ac­ci­dent-​prone boy with the worst mem­ory of any­one Har­ry had ev­er met.

“Mail’s due any minute — I think Gran’s send­ing a few things I for­got.”

Har­ry had on­ly just start­ed his por­ridge when, sure enough, there was a rush­ing sound over­head and a hun­dred or so owls streamed in, cir­cling the hall and drop­ping let­ters and pack­ages in­to the chat­ter­ing crowd. A big, lumpy pack­age bounced off Neville’s head and, a sec­ond lat­er, some­thing large and gray fell in­to Hermione’s jug, spray­ing them all with milk and feath­ers.

“Er­rol!” said Ron, pulling the bedrag­gled owl out by the feet. Er­rol slumped, Un­con­scious, on­to the ta­ble, his legs in the air and a damp red en­ve­lope in his beak.

“Oh, no —” Ron gasped.

“It’s all right, he’s still alive,” said Hermione, prod­ding Er­rol gen­tly with the tip of her fin­ger.

“It’s not that — it’s that.”

Ron was point­ing at the red en­ve­lope. It looked quite or­di­nary to Har­ry, but Ron and Neville were both look­ing at it as though they ex­pect­ed it to ex­plode.

“What’s the mat­ter?” said Har­ry.

“She’s — she’s sent me a Howler,” said Ron faint­ly.

“You’d bet­ter open it, Ron,” said Neville in a timid whis­per. “It’ll be worse if you Don’t My gran sent me one once, and I ig­nored it and” — he gulped —“it was hor­ri­ble.”

Har­ry looked from their pet­ri­fied faces to the red en­ve­lope.

“What’s a Howler?” he said.

But Ron’s whole at­ten­tion was fixed on the let­ter, which had be­gun to smoke at the cor­ners.

“Open it,” Neville urged. “It’ll all be over in a few min­utes —”

Ron stretched out a shak­ing hand, eased the en­ve­lope from Er­rol’s beak, and slit it open. Neville stuffed his fin­gers in his ears. A split sec­ond lat­er, Har­ry knew why. He thought for a mo­ment it had ex­plod­ed; a roar of sound filled the huge hall, shak­ing dust from the ceil­ing.

“—STEAL­ING THE CAR, I WOULDN’T HAVE BEEN SUR­PRISED IF THEY’D EX­PELLED YOU, YOU WAIT TILL I GET HOLD OF YOU, I DON’T SUP­POSE YOU STOPPED TO THINK WHAT YOUR FA­THER AND I WENT THROUGH WHEN WE SAW IT WAS GONE —”

Mrs. Weasleys yells, a hun­dred times loud­er than usu­al, made the plates and spoons rat­tle on the ta­ble, and echoed deaf­en­ing­ly off the stone walls. Peo­ple through­out the hall were swivel­ing around to see who had re­ceived the Howler, and Ron sank so low in his chair that on­ly his crim­son fore­head could be seen.

“—LET­TER FROM DUM­BLE­DORE LAST NIGHT, I THOUGHT YOUR FA­THER WOULD DIE OF SHAME, WE DIDN’T BRING YOU UP TO BE­HAVE LIKE THIS, YOU AND HAR­RY COULD BOTH HAVE DIED —”

Har­ry had been won­der­ing when his name was go­ing to crop up. He tried very hard to look as though he couldn’t hear the voice that was mak­ing his eardrums throb.

“—AB­SO­LUTE­LY DIS­GUST­ED — YOUR FA­THER’S FAC­ING AN IN­QUIRY AT WORK, IT’S EN­TIRE­LY YOUR FAULT AND IF YOU PUT AN­OTH­ER TOE OUT OF LINE WE’LL BRING YOU STRAIGHT BACK HOME.”

A ring­ing si­lence fell. The red en­ve­lope, which had dropped from Ron’s hand, burst in­to flames and curled in­to ash­es. Har­ry and Ron sat stunned, as though a tidal wave had just passed over them. A few peo­ple laughed and, grad­ual­ly, a bab­ble of talk broke out again.

Hermione closed Voy­ages with Vam­pires and looked down at the top of Ron’s head.

“Well, I don’t know what you ex­pect­ed, Ron, but you —”

“Don’t tell me I de­served it,” snapped Ron.

Har­ry pushed his por­ridge away. His in­sides were burn­ing with guilt. Mr. Weasley was fac­ing an in­quiry at work. Af­ter all Mr. and Mrs. Weasley had done for him over the sum­mer…

But he had no time to dwell on this; Pro­fes­sor McG­ona­gall was mov­ing along the Gryffind­or ta­ble, hand­ing out course sched­ules. Har­ry took his and saw that they had dou­ble Her­bol­ogy with the Huf­flepuffs first.

Har­ry, Ron, and Hermione left the cas­tle to­geth­er, crossed the veg­etable patch, and made for the green­hous­es, where the mag­ical plants were kept. At least the Howler had done one good thing: Hermione seemed to think they had now been pun­ished enough and was be­ing per­fect­ly friend­ly again.

As they neared the green­hous­es they saw the rest of the class stand­ing out­side, wait­ing for Pro­fes­sor Sprout. Har­ry, Ron, and Hermione had on­ly just joined them when she came strid­ing in­to view across the lawn, ac­com­pa­nied by Gilderoy Lock­hart. Pro­fes­sor Sprout’s arms were full of ban­dages, and with an­oth­er twinge of guilt, Har­ry spot­ted the Whomp­ing Wil­low in the dis­tance, sev­er­al of its branch­es now in slings.

Pro­fes­sor Sprout was a squat lit­tle witch who wore a patched hat over her fly­away hair; there was usu­al­ly a large amount of earth on her clothes and her fin­ger­nails would have made Aunt Petu­nia faint. Gilderoy Lock­hart, how­ev­er, was im­mac­ulate in sweep­ing robes of turquoise, his gold­en hair shin­ing un­der a per­fect­ly po­si­tioned turquoise hat with gold trim­ming.

“Oh, hel­lo there!” he called, beam­ing around at the as­sem­bled stu­dents. “Just been show­ing Pro­fes­sor Sprout the right way to doc­tor a Whomp­ing Wil­low! But I don’t want you run­ning away with the idea that I’m bet­ter at Her­bol­ogy than she is! I just hap­pen to have met sev­er­al of these ex­ot­ic plants on my trav­els…”

“Green­house three to­day, chaps!” said Pro­fes­sor Sprout, who was look­ing dis­tinct­ly dis­grun­tled, not at all her usu­al cheer­ful self.

There was a mur­mur of in­ter­est. They had on­ly ev­er worked in green­house one be­fore — green­house three housed far more in­ter­est­ing and dan­ger­ous plants. Pro­fes­sor Sprout took a large key from her belt and un­locked the door. Har­ry caught a whiff of damp earth and fer­til­iz­er min­gling with the heavy per­fume of some gi­ant, um­brel­la-​sized flow­ers dan­gling from the ceil­ing. He was about to fol­low Ron and Hermione in­side when Lock­hart’s hand shot out.

“Har­ry! I’ve been want­ing a word — you don’t mind if he’s a cou­ple of min­utes late, do you, Pro­fes­sor Sprout?”

Judg­ing by Pro­fes­sor Sprout’s scowl, she did mind, but Lock­hart said, “That’s the tick­et,” and closed the green­house door in her face.

“Har­ry,” said Lock­hart, his large white teeth gleam­ing in the sun­light as he shook his head. “Har­ry, Har­ry, Har­ry.”

Com­plete­ly non­plussed, Har­ry said noth­ing.

“When I heard — well, of course, it was all my fault. Could have kicked my­self.”

Har­ry had no idea what he was talk­ing about. He was about to say so when Lock­hart went on, “Don’t know when I’ve been more shocked. Fly­ing a car to Hog­warts! Well, of course, I knew at once why you’d done it. Stood out a mile. Har­ry, Har­ry, Har­ry.”

It was re­mark­able how he could show ev­ery one of those bril­liant teeth even when he wasn’t talk­ing.

“Gave you a taste for pub­lic­ity, didn’t I?” said Lock­hart. “Gave you the bug. You got on­to the front page of the pa­per with me and you couldn’t wait to do it again.”

“Oh, no, Pro­fes­sor, see —”

“Har­ry, Har­ry, Har­ry,” said Lock­hart, reach­ing out and grasp­ing his shoul­der. “I un­der­stand. Nat­ural to want a bit more once you’ve had that first taste — and I blame my­self for giv­ing you that, be­cause it was bound to go to your head — but see here, young man, you can’t start fly­ing cars to try and get your­self no­ticed. Just calm down, all right? Plen­ty of time for all that when you’re old­er. Yes, yes, I know what you’re think­ing! ‘It’s all right for him, he’s an in­ter­na­tion­al­ly fa­mous wiz­ard al­ready!’ But when I was twelve, I was just as much of a no­body as you are now. In fact, I’d say I was even more of a no­body! I mean, a few peo­ple have heard of you, haven’t they? All that busi­ness with He-​Who-​Must-​Not-​Be-​Named!” He glanced at the light­ning scar on Har­ry’s fore­head. “I know, I know — it’s not quite as good as win­ning Witch Week­ly’s Most Charm­ing Smile Award five times in a row, as I have — but it’s a start, Har­ry, it’s a start.”

He gave Har­ry a hearty wink and strode off. Har­ry stood stunned for a few sec­onds, then, re­mem­ber­ing he was sup­posed to be in the green­house, he opened the door and slid in­side.

Pro­fes­sor Sprout was stand­ing be­hind a tres­tle bench in the cen­ter of the green­house. About twen­ty pairs of dif­fer­ent-​col­ored ear muffs were ly­ing on the bench. When Har­ry had tak­en his place be­tween Ron and Hermione, she said, “We’ll be re­pot­ting Man­drakes to­day. Now, who can tell me the prop­er­ties of the Man­drake?”

To no­body’s sur­prise, Hermione’s hand was first in­to the air.

“Man­drake, or Man­drago­ra, is a pow­er­ful restora­tive,” said Hermione, sound­ing as usu­al as though she had swal­lowed the text­book. “It is used to re­turn peo­ple who have been trans­fig­ured or cursed to their orig­inal state.”

“Ex­cel­lent. Ten points to Gryffind­or,” said Pro­fes­sor Sprout. “The Man­drake forms an es­sen­tial part of most an­ti­dotes. It is al­so, how­ev­er, dan­ger­ous. Who can tell me why?”

Hermione’s hand nar­row­ly missed Har­ry’s glass­es as it shot up again.

“The cry of the Man­drake is fa­tal to any­one who hears it,” she said prompt­ly.

“Pre­cise­ly. Take an­oth­er ten points,” said Pro­fes­sor Sprout. “Now, the Man­drakes we have here are still very young.”

She point­ed to a row of deep trays as she spoke, and ev­ery­one shuf­fled for­ward for a bet­ter look. A hun­dred or so tufty lit­tle plants, pur­plish green in col­or, were grow­ing there in rows. They looked quite un­re­mark­able to Har­ry, who didn’t have the slight­est idea what Hermione meant by the “cry” of the Man­drake.

“Ev­ery­one take a pair of ear­muffs,” said Pro­fes­sor Sprout.

There was a scram­ble as ev­ery­one tried to seize a pair that wasn’t pink and fluffy.

“When I tell you to put them on, make sure your ears are com­plete­ly cov­ered,” said Pro­fes­sor Sprout. “When it is safe to re­move them, I will give you the thumbs-​up. Right — ear­muffs on.”

Har­ry snapped the ear­muffs over his ears. They shut out sound com­plete­ly. Pro­fes­sor Sprout put the pink, fluffy pair over her own ears, rolled up the sleeves of her robes, grasped one of the tufty plants firm­ly, and pulled hard.

Har­ry let out a gasp of sur­prise that no one could hear.

In­stead of roots, a small, mud­dy, and ex­treme­ly ug­ly ba­by popped out of the earth. The leaves were grow­ing right out of his head. He had pale green, mot­tled skin, and was clear­ly bawl­ing at the top of his lungs.

Pro­fes­sor Sprout took a large plant pot from un­der the ta­ble and plunged the Man­drake in­to it, bury­ing him in dark, damp com­post un­til on­ly the tuft­ed leaves were vis­ible. Pro­fes­sor Sprout dust­ed off her hands, gave them all the thumbs-​up, and re­moved her own ear­muffs.

“As our Man­drakes are on­ly seedlings, their cries won’t kill yet,” she said calm­ly as though she’d just done noth­ing more ex­cit­ing than wa­ter a be­go­nia. “How­ev­er, they will knock you out for sev­er­al hours, and as I’m sure none of you want to miss your first day back, make sure your ear­muffs are se­cure­ly in place while you work. I will at­tract your at­ten­tion when it is time to pack up.

“Four to a tray — there is a large sup­ply of pots here — com­post in the sacks over there — and be care­ful of the Ven­emous Ten­tac­ula, it’s teething.”

She gave a sharp slap to a spiky, dark red plant as she spoke, mak­ing it draw in the long feel­ers that had been inch­ing sneak­ily over her shoul­der.

Har­ry, Ron, and Hermione were joined at their tray by a curly-​haired Huf­flepuff boy Har­ry knew by sight but had nev­er spo­ken to.

“Justin Finch-​Fletch­ley,” he said bright­ly, shak­ing Har­ry by the hand. “Know who you are, of course, the fa­mous Har­ry Pot­ter.…And you’re Hermione Granger — al­ways top in ev­ery­thing” (Hermione beamed as she had her hand shak­en too) “— and Ron Weasley. Wasn’t that your fly­ing car?”

Ron didn’t smile. The Howler was ob­vi­ous­ly still on his mind.

“That Lock­hart’s some­thing, isn’t he?” said Justin hap­pi­ly as they be­gan fill­ing their plant pots with drag­on dung com­post. “Aw­ful­ly brave chap. Have you read his books? I’d have died of fear if Id been cor­nered in a tele­phone booth by a were­wolf, but he stayed cool and — zap — just fan­tas­tic.

“My name was down for Eton, you know. I can’t tell you how glad I am I came here in­stead. Of course, Moth­er was slight­ly dis­ap­point­ed, but since I made her read Lock­hart’s books I think she’s be­gun to see how use­ful it’ll be to have a ful­ly trained wiz­ard in the fam­ily.…”

Af­ter that they didn’t have much chance to talk. Their ear­muffs were back on and they need­ed to con­cen­trate on the Man­drakes. Pro­fes­sor Sprout had made it look ex­treme­ly easy, but it wasn’t. The Man­drakes didn’t like com­ing out of the earth, but didn’t seem to want to go back in­to it ei­ther. They squirmed, kicked, flailed their sharp lit­tle fists, and gnashed their teeth; Har­ry spent ten whole min­utes try­ing to squash a par­tic­ular­ly fat one in­to a pot.

By the end of the class, Har­ry, like ev­ery­one else, was sweaty, aching, and cov­ered in earth. Ev­ery­one traipsed back to the cas­tle for a quick wash and then the Gryffind­ors hur­ried off to Trans­fig­ura­tion.

Pro­fes­sor McG­ona­gall’s class­es were al­ways hard work, but to­day was es­pe­cial­ly dif­fi­cult. Ev­ery­thing Har­ry had learned last year seemed to have leaked out of his head dur­ing the sum­mer. He was sup­posed to be turn­ing a bee­tle in­to a but­ton, but all he man­aged to do was give his bee­tle a lot of ex­er­cise as it scut­tled over the desk­top avoid­ing his wand.

Ron was hav­ing far worse prob­lems. He had patched up his wand with some bor­rowed Spel­lotape, but it seemed to be dam­aged be­yond re­pair. It kept crack­ling and spark­ing at odd mo­ments, and ev­ery time Ron tried to trans­fig­ure his bee­tle it en­gulfed him in thick gray smoke that smelled of rot­ten eggs. Un­able to see what he was do­ing, Ron ac­ci­den­tal­ly squashed his bee­tle with his el­bow and had to ask for a new one. Pro­fes­sor McG­ona­gall wasn’t pleased.

Har­ry was re­lieved to hear the lunch bell. His brain felt like a wrung sponge. Ev­ery­one filed out of the class­room ex­cept him and Ron, who was whack­ing his wand fu­ri­ous­ly on the desk.

“Stupid — use­less — thing —”

“Write home for an­oth­er one,” Har­ry sug­gest­ed as the wand let off a vol­ley of bangs like a fire­crack­er.

“Oh, yeah, and get an­oth­er Howler back,” said Ron, stuff­ing the now hiss­ing wand in­to his bag. “ ‘It’s your own fault your wand got snapped —’”

They went down to lunch, where Ron’s mood was not im­proved by Hermione’s show­ing them the hand­ful of per­fect coat but­tons she had pro­duced in Trans­fig­ura­tion.

“What’ve we got this af­ter­noon?” said Har­ry, hasti­ly chang­ing the sub­ject.

“De­fense Against the Dark Arts,” said Hermione at once.

“Why, “de­mand­ed Ron, seiz­ing her sched­ule, “have you out­lined all Lock­hart’s lessons in lit­tle hearts?”

Hermione snatched the sched­ule back, blush­ing fu­ri­ous­ly.

They fin­ished lunch and went out­side in­to the over­cast court­yard. Hermione sat down on a stone step and buried her nose in Voy­ages with Vam­pires again. Har­ry and Ron stood talk­ing about Quid­ditch for sev­er­al min­utes be­fore Har­ry be­came aware that he was be­ing close­ly watched. Look­ing up, he saw the very small, mousy-​haired boy he’d seen try­ing on the Sort­ing Hat last night star­ing at Har­ry as though trans­fixed. He was clutch­ing what looked like an or­di­nary Mug­gle cam­era, and the mo­ment Har­ry looked at him, he went bright red.

“All right, Har­ry? I’m — I’m Col­in Creevey,” he said breath­less­ly, tak­ing a ten­ta­tive step for­ward. “I’m in Gryffind­or, too. D’you think — would it be all right if — can I have a pic­ture?” he said, rais­ing the cam­era hope­ful­ly.

“A pic­ture?” Har­ry re­peat­ed blankly.

“So I can prove I’ve met you,” said Col­in Creevey ea­ger­ly, edg­ing fur­ther for­ward. “I know all about you. Ev­ery­one’s told me. About how you sur­vived when You-​Know-​Who tried to kill you and how he dis­ap­peared and ev­ery­thing and how you’ve still got a light­ning scar on your fore­head” (his eyes raked Har­ry’s hair­line) “and a boy in my dor­mi­to­ry said if I de­vel­op the film in the right po­tion, the pic­tures’ll move.” Col­in drew a great shud­der­ing breath of ex­cite­ment and said, “It’s amaz­ing here, isn’t it? I nev­er knew all the odd stuff I could do was mag­ic till I got the let­ter from Hog­warts. My dad’s a milk­man, he couldn’t be­lieve it ei­ther. So I’m tak­ing loads of pic­tures to send home to him. And it’d be re­al­ly good if I had one of you” — he looked im­plor­ing­ly at Har­ry — “maybe your friend could take it and I could stand next to you? And then, could you sign it?”

“Signed pho­tos? You’re giv­ing out signed pho­tos, Pot­ter?”

Loud and scathing, Dra­co Mal­foy’s voice echoed around the court­yard. He had stopped right be­hind Col­in, flanked, as he al­ways was at Hog­warts, by his large and thug­gish cronies, Crabbe and Goyle.

“Ev­ery­one line up!” Mal­foy roared to the crowd. “Har­ry Pot­ter’s giv­ing out signed pho­tos!”

“No, I’m not,” said Har­ry an­gri­ly, his fists clench­ing. “Shut up, Mal­foy.”

“You’re just jeal­ous,” piped up Col­in, whose en­tire body was about as thick as Crabbe’s neck.

“Jeal­ous?” said Mal­foy, who didn’t need to shout any­more: half the court­yard was lis­ten­ing in. “Of what? I don’t want a foul scar right across my head, thanks. I don’t think get­ting your head cut open makes you that spe­cial, my­self.”

Crabbe and Goyle were snig­ger­ing stupid­ly.

“Eat slugs, Mal­foy,” said Ron an­gri­ly. Crabbe stopped laugh­ing and start­ed rub­bing his knuck­les in a men­ac­ing way.

“Be care­ful, Weasley,” sneered Mal­foy. “You don’t want to start any trou­ble or your Mom­my’ll have to come and take you away from school.” He put on a shrill, pierc­ing voice. “‘If you put an­oth­er toe out of line’—”

A knot of Slytherin fifth-​years near­by laughed loud­ly at this.

“Weasley would like a signed pho­to, Pot­ter,” smirked Mal­foy. “It’d be worth more than his fam­ily’s whole house —”

Ron whipped out his Spel­lotaped wand, but Hermione shut Voy­ages with Vam­pires with a snap and whis­pered, “Look out!”

“What’s all this, what’s all this?” Gilderoy Lock­hart was strid­ing to­ward them, his turquoise robes swirling be­hind him. “Who’s giv­ing out signed pho­tos?”

Har­ry start­ed to speak but he was cut short as Lock­hart flung an arm around his shoul­ders and thun­dered jovial­ly, “Shouldn’t have asked! We meet again, Har­ry!”

Pinned to Lock­hart’s side and burn­ing with hu­mil­ia­tion, Har­ry saw Mal­foy slide smirk­ing back in­to the crowd.

“Come on then, Mr. Creevey,” said Lock­hart, beam­ing at Col­in. “A dou­ble por­trait, can’t do bet­ter than that, and we’ll both sign it for you.”

Col­in fum­bled for his cam­era and took the pic­ture as the bell rang be­hind them, sig­nal­ing the start of af­ter­noon class­es.

“Off you go, move along there,” Lock­hart called to the crowd, and he set off back to the cas­tle with Har­ry, who was wish­ing he knew a good Van­ish­ing Spell, still clasped to his side.

“A word to the wise, Har­ry,” said Lock­hart pa­ter­nal­ly as they en­tered the build­ing through a side door. “I cov­ered up for you back there with young Creevey — if he was pho­tograph­ing me, too, your school­mates won’t think you’re set­ting your­self up so much.…”

Deaf to Har­ry’s stam­mers, Lock­hart swept him down a cor­ri­dor lined with star­ing stu­dents and up a stair­case.

“Let me just say that hand­ing out signed pic­tures at this stage of your ca­reer isn’t sen­si­ble — looks a tad big­head­ed, Har­ry, to be frank. There may well come a time when, like me, you’ll need to keep a stack handy wher­ev­er you go, but” — he gave a lit­tle chor­tle — “I don’t think you’re quite there yet.”

They had reached Lock­hart’s class­room and he let Har­ry go at last. Har­ry yanked his robes straight and head­ed for a seat at the very back of the class, where he bus­ied him­self with pil­ing all sev­en of Lock­hart’s books in front of him, so that he could avoid look­ing at the re­al thing.

The rest of the class came clat­ter­ing in, and Ron and Hermione sat down on ei­ther side of Har­ry.

“You could’ve fried an egg on your face” said Ron. “You’d bet­ter hope Creevey doesn’t meet Gin­ny, or they’ll be start­ing a Har­ry Pot­ter fan club.”

“Shut up,” snapped Har­ry. The last thing he need­ed was for Lock­hart to hear the phrase “Har­ry Pot­ter fan club”

When the whole class was seat­ed, Lock­hart cleared his throat loud­ly and si­lence fell. He reached for­ward, picked up Neville Long­bot­tom’s copy of Trav­els with Trolls, and held it up to show his own, wink­ing por­trait on the front.

“Me,” he said, point­ing at it and wink­ing as well. “Gilderoy Lock­hart, Or­der of Mer­lin, Third Class, Hon­orary Mem­ber of the Dark Force De­fense League, and five-​time win­ner of Witch Week­ly’s Most Charm­ing Smile Award but I don’t talk about that. I didn’t get rid of the Ban­don Ban­shee by smil­ing at her!”

He wait­ed for them to laugh; a few peo­ple smiled weak­ly.

“I see you’ve all bought a com­plete set of my books — well done. I thought we’d start to­day with a lit­tle quiz. Noth­ing to wor­ry about — just to check how well you’ve read them, how much you’ve tak­en in —”

When he had hand­ed out the test pa­pers he re­turned to the front of the class and said, “You have thir­ty min­utes — start — now!”

Har­ry looked down at his pa­per and read:



1. What is Gilderoy Lock­hart ‘s fa­vorite col­or?

2. What is Gilderoy Lock­hart’s se­cret am­bi­tion?

3. What, in your opin­ion, is Gilderoy Lock­hart’s great­est achieve­ment to date?



On and on it went, over three sides of pa­per, right down to:



54. When is Gilderoy Lock­hart’s birth­day, and what would his ide­al gift be?



Half an hour lat­er, Lock­hart col­lect­ed the pa­pers and ri­fled through them in front of the class.

“Tut, tut — hard­ly any of you re­mem­bered that my fa­vorite col­or is lilac. I say so in Year with the Yeti. And a few of you need to read Wan­der­ings with Were­wolves more care­ful­ly — I clear­ly state in chap­ter twelve that my ide­al birth­day gift would be har­mo­ny be­tween all mag­ic and non-​mag­ic peo­ples — though I wouldn’t say no to a large bot­tle of Ogdeds Old Firewhisky!”

He gave them an­oth­er rogu­ish wink. Ron was now star­ing at Lock­hart with an ex­pres­sion of dis­be­lief on his face; Sea­mus Finni­gan and Dean Thomas, who were sit­ting in front, were shak­ing with silent laugh­ter. Hermione, on the oth­er hand, was lis­ten­ing to Lock­hart with rapt at­ten­tion and gave a start when he men­tioned her name.

“…but Miss Hermione Granger knew my se­cret am­bi­tion is to rid the world of evil and mar­ket my own range of hair-​care po­tions — good girl! In fact” — he flipped her pa­per over — “full marks! Where is Miss Hermione Granger?”

Hermione raised a trem­bling hand.

“Ex­cel­lent!” beamed Lock­hart. “Quite ex­cel­lent! Take ten points for Gryffind­or! And so — to busi­ness —”

He bent down be­hind his desk and lift­ed a large, cov­ered cage on­to it.

“Now — be warned! It is my job to arm you against the foulest crea­tures known to wiz­ard­kind! You may find your­selves fac­ing your worst fears in this room. Know on­ly that no harm can be­fall you whilst I am here. All I ask is that you re­main calm.”

In spite of him­self, Har­ry leaned around his pile of books for a bet­ter look at the cage. Lock­hart placed a hand on the cov­er. Dean and Sea­mus had stopped laugh­ing now. Neville was cow­er­ing in his front row seat.

“I must ask you not to scream,” said Lock­hart in a low voice. “It might pro­voke them.”

As the whole class held its breath, Lock­hart whipped off the cov­er.

“Yes,” he said dra­mat­ical­ly. “Fresh­ly caught Cor­nish pix­ies.”

Sea­mus Finni­gan couldn’t con­trol him­self. He let out a snort of laugh­ter that even Lock­hart couldn’t mis­take for a scream of ter­ror.

“Yes?” He smiled at Sea­mus.

“Well, they’re not — they’re not very — dan­ger­ous, are they?” Sea­mus choked.

“Don’t be so sure!” said Lock­hart, wag­gling a fin­ger an­noy­ing­ly at Sea­mus. “Dev­il­ish tricky lit­tle blighters they can be!”

The pix­ies were elec­tric blue and about eight inch­es high, with point­ed faces and voic­es so shrill it was like lis­ten­ing to a lot of bud­gies ar­gu­ing. The mo­ment the cov­er had been re­moved, they had start­ed jab­ber­ing and rock­et­ing around, rat­tling the bars and mak­ing bizarre faces at the peo­ple near­est them.

“Right, then,” Lock­hart said loud­ly. “Let’s see what you make of them!” And he opened the cage.

It was pan­de­mo­ni­um. The pix­ies shot in ev­ery di­rec­tion like rock­ets. Two of them seized Neville by the ears and lift­ed him in­to the air. Sev­er­al shot straight through the win­dow, show­er­ing the back row with bro­ken glass. The rest pro­ceed­ed to wreck the class­room more ef­fec­tive­ly than a ram­pag­ing rhi­no. They grabbed ink bot­tles and sprayed the class with them, shred­ded books and pa­pers, tore pic­tures from the walls, up-​end­ed the waste bas­ket, grabbed bags and books and threw them out of the smashed win­dow; with­in min­utes, half the class was shel­ter­ing un­der desks and Neville was swing­ing from the iron chan­de­lier in the ceil­ing.

“Come on now — round them up, round them up, they’re on­ly pix­ies,” Lock­hart shout­ed.

He rolled up his sleeves, bran­dished his wand, and bel­lowed, “Peskipik­si Pester­no­mi!”

It had ab­so­lute­ly no ef­fect; one of the pix­ies seized his wand and threw it out of the win­dow, too. Lock­hart gulped and dived un­der his own desk, nar­row­ly avoid­ing be­ing squashed by Neville, who fell a sec­ond lat­er as the chan­de­lier gave way.

The bell rang and there was a mad rush to­ward the ex­it. In the rel­ative calm that fol­lowed, Lock­hart straight­ened up, caught sight of Har­ry, Ron, and Hermione, who were al­most at the door, and said, “Well, I’ll ask you three to just nip the rest of them back in­to their cage.” He swept past them and shut the door quick­ly be­hind him.

“Can you be­lieve him?” roared Ron as one of the re­main­ing pix­ies bit him painful­ly on the ear.

“He just wants to give us some hands-​on ex­pe­ri­ence,” said Hermione, im­mo­bi­liz­ing two pix­ies at once with a clever Freez­ing Charm and stuff­ing them back in­to their cage.

“Hands on? “said Har­ry, who was try­ing to grab a pix­ie danc­ing out of reach with its tongue out. “Hermione, he didn’t have a clue what he was do­ing —”

“Rub­bish,” said Hermione. “You’ve read his books — look at all those amaz­ing things he’s done —”

“He says he’s done,” Ron mut­tered.





HP 2 - Harry Potter and The Chamber of Secrets





CHAPTER SEVEN




MUD­BLOODS AND MUR­MURS



H ar­ry spent a lot of time over the next few days dodg­ing out of sight when­ev­er he saw Gilderoy Lock­hart com­ing down a cor­ri­dor. Hard­er to avoid was Col­in Creevey, who seemed to have mem­orized Har­ry’s sched­ule. Noth­ing seemed to give Col­in a big­ger thrill than to say, “All right, Har­ry?” six or sev­en times a day and hear, “Hel­lo, Col­in,” back, how­ev­er ex­as­per­at­ed Har­ry sound­ed when he said it.

Hed­wig was still an­gry with Har­ry about the dis­as­trous car jour­ney and Ron’s wand was still mal­func­tion­ing, sur­pass­ing it­self on Fri­day morn­ing by shoot­ing out of Ron’s hand in Charms and hit­ting tiny old Pro­fes­sor Flitwick square­ly be­tween the eyes, cre­at­ing a large, throb­bing green boil where it had struck. So with one thing and an­oth­er, Har­ry was quite glad to reach the week­end. He, Ron, and Hermione were plan­ning to vis­it Ha­grid on Sat­ur­day morn­ing. Har­ry, how­ev­er, was shak­en awake sev­er­al hours ear­li­er than he would have liked by Oliv­er Wood, Cap­tain of the Gryffind­or Quid­ditch team.

“Whas­samat­ter?” said Har­ry grog­gi­ly.

“Quid­ditch prac­tice!” said Wood. “Come on!”

Har­ry squint­ed at the win­dow. There was a thin mist hang­ing across the pink-​and-​gold sky. Now that he was awake, he couldn’t un­der­stand how he could have slept through the rack­et the birds were mak­ing.

“Oliv­er,” Har­ry croaked. “It’s the crack of dawn.”

“Ex­act­ly,” said Wood. He was a tall and burly sixth year and, at the mo­ment, his eyes were gleam­ing with a crazed en­thu­si­asm. “It’s part of our new train­ing pro­gram. Come on, grab your broom, and let’s go,” said Wood hearti­ly. “None of the oth­er teams have start­ed train­ing yet; we’re go­ing to be first off the mark this year —”

Yawn­ing and shiv­er­ing slight­ly, Har­ry climbed out of bed and tried to find his Quid­ditch robes.

“Good man,” said Wood. “Meet you on the field in fif­teen min­utes.”

When he’d found his scar­let team robes and pulled on his cloak for warmth, Har­ry scrib­bled a note to Ron ex­plain­ing where he’d gone and went down the spi­ral stair­case to the com­mon room, his Nim­bus Two Thou­sand on his shoul­der. He had just reached the por­trait hole when there was a clat­ter be­hind him and Col­in Creevey came dash­ing down the spi­ral stair­case, his cam­era swing­ing mad­ly around his neck and some­thing clutched in his hand.

“I heard some­one say­ing your name on the stairs, Har­ry! Look what I’ve got here! I’ve had it de­vel­oped, I want­ed to show you —”

Har­ry looked be­mus­ed­ly at the pho­to­graph Col­in was bran­dish­ing un­der his nose.

A mov­ing, black-​and-​white Lock­hart was tug­ging hard on an arm Har­ry rec­og­nized as his own. He was pleased to see that his pho­to­graph­ic self was putting up a good fight and re­fus­ing to be dragged in­to view. As Har­ry watched, Lock­hart gave up and slumped, Pant­ing, against the white edge of the pic­ture.

“Will you sign it?” said Col­in ea­ger­ly.

“No,” said Har­ry flat­ly, glanc­ing around to check that the room was re­al­ly de­sert­ed. “Sor­ry, Col­in, I’m in a hur­ry — Quid­ditch prac­tice —”

He climbed through the por­trait hole.

“Oh, wow! Wait for me! I’ve nev­er watched a Quid­ditch game be­fore!”

Col­in scram­bled through the hole af­ter him.

“It’ll be re­al­ly bor­ing,” Har­ry said quick­ly, but Col­in ig­nored him, his face shin­ing with ex­cite­ment.

“You were the youngest House play­er in a hun­dred years, weren’t you, Har­ry? Weren’t you?” said Col­in, trot­ting along­side him. “You must be bril­liant. I’ve nev­er flown. Is it easy? Is that your own broom? Is that the best one there is?”

Har­ry didn’t know how to get rid of him. It was like hav­ing an ex­treme­ly talkative shad­ow.

“I don’t re­al­ly un­der­stand Quid­ditch,” said Col­in breath­less­ly. “Is it true there are four balls? And two of them fly around try­ing to knock peo­ple off their brooms?”

“Yes,” said Har­ry heav­ily, re­signed to ex­plain­ing the com­pli­cat­ed rules of Quid­ditch. “They’re called Bludgers. There are two Beat­ers on each team who car­ry clubs to beat the Bludgers away from their side. Fred and George Weasley are the Gryffind­or Beat­ers.”

“And what are the oth­er balls for?” Col­in asked, trip­ping down a cou­ple of steps be­cause he was gaz­ing open-​mouthed at Har­ry.

“Well, the Quaf­fle — that’s the big­gish red one — is the one that scores goals. Three Chasers on each team throw the Quaf­fle to each oth­er and try and get it through the goal posts at the end of the pitch — they’re three long poles with hoops on the end.”

“And the fourth ball —”

“— is the Gold­en Snitch,” said Har­ry, “and it’s very small, very fast, and dif­fi­cult to catch. But that’s what the Seek­er’s got to do, be­cause a game of Quid­ditch doesn’t end un­til the Snitch has been caught. And whichev­er team’s Seek­er gets the Snitch earns his team an ex­tra hun­dred and fifty points.”

“And you’re the Gryffind­or Seek­er, aren’t you?” said Col­in in awe.

“Yes,” said Har­ry as they left the cas­tle and start­ed across the dew-​drenched grass. “And there’s the Keep­er, too. He guards the goal posts. That’s it, re­al­ly.”

But Col­in didn’t stop ques­tion­ing Har­ry all the way down the slop­ing lawns to the Quid­ditch field, and Har­ry on­ly shook him off when he reached the chang­ing rooms; Col­in called af­ter him in a pip­ing voice, “I’ll go and get a good seat, Har­ry!” and hur­ried off to the stands.

The rest of the Gryffind­or team were al­ready in the chang­ing room. Wood was the on­ly per­son who looked tru­ly awake. Fred and George Weasley were sit­ting, puffy-​eyed and tou­sle­haired, next to fourth year Ali­cia Spin­net, who seemed to be nod­ding off against the wall be­hind her. Her fel­low Chasers, Katie Bell and An­geli­na John­son, were yawn­ing side by side op­po­site them.

“There you are, Har­ry, what kept you?” said Wood briskly. “Now, I want­ed a quick talk with you all be­fore we ac­tu­al­ly get on­to the field, be­cause I spent the sum­mer de­vis­ing a whole new train­ing pro­gram, which I re­al­ly think will make all the dif­fer­ence….”

Wood was hold­ing up a large di­agram of a Quid­ditch field, on which were drawn many lines, ar­rows, and cross­es in dif­fer­ent col­ored inks. He took out his wand, tapped the board, and the ar­rows be­gan to wig­gle over the di­agram like cater­pil­lars. As Wood launched in­to a speech about his new tac­tics, Fred Weasley’s head drooped right on­to Ali­cia Spin­net’s shoul­der and he be­gan to snore.

The first board took near­ly twen­ty min­utes to ex­plain, but there was an­oth­er board un­der that, and a third un­der that one. Har­ry sank in­to a stu­por as Wood droned on and on.

“So,” said Wood, at long last, jerk­ing Har­ry from a wist­ful fan­ta­sy about what he could be eat­ing for break­fast at this very mo­ment up at the cas­tle. “Is that clear? Any ques­tions?”

“I’ve got a ques­tion, Oliv­er,” said George, who had wo­ken with a start. “Why couldn’t you have told us all this yes­ter­day when we were awake?”

Wood wasn’t pleased.

“Now, lis­ten here, you lot,” he said, glow­er­ing at them all. “We should have won the Quid­ditch cup last year. We’re eas­ily the best team. But un­for­tu­nate­ly — ow­ing to cir­cum­stances be­yond our con­trol —”

Har­ry shift­ed guilti­ly in his seat. He had been un­con­scious in the hos­pi­tal wing for the fi­nal match of the pre­vi­ous year, mean­ing that Gryffind­or had been a play­er short and had suf­fered their worst de­feat in three hun­dred years.

Wood took a mo­ment to re­gain con­trol of him­self. Their last de­feat was clear­ly still tor­tur­ing him.

“So this year, we train hard­er than ev­er be­fore.…Okay, let’s go and put our new the­ories in­to prac­tice!” Wood shout­ed, seiz­ing his broom­stick and lead­ing the way out of the lock­er rooms. Stiff-​legged and still yawn­ing, his team fol­lowed.

They had been in the lock­er room so long that the sun was up com­plete­ly now, al­though rem­nants of mist hung over the grass in the sta­di­um. As Har­ry walked on­to the field, he saw Ron and Hermione sit­ting in the stands.

“Aren’t you fin­ished yet?” called Ron in­cred­ulous­ly.

“Haven’t even start­ed,” said Har­ry, look­ing jeal­ous­ly at the toast and mar­malade Ron and Hermione had brought out of the Great Hall. “Wood’s been teach­ing us new moves.”

He mount­ed his broom­stick and kicked at the ground, soar­ing up in­to the air. The cool morn­ing air whipped his face, wak­ing him far more ef­fec­tive­ly than Wood’s long talk. It felt won­der­ful to be back on the Quid­ditch field. He soared right around the sta­di­um at full speed, rac­ing Fred and George.

“What’s that fun­ny click­ing noise?” called Fred as they hur­tled around the cor­ner.

Har­ry looked in­to the stands. Col­in was sit­ting in one of the high­est seats, his cam­era raised, tak­ing pic­ture af­ter pic­ture, the sound strange­ly mag­ni­fied in the de­sert­ed sta­di­um.

“Look this way, Har­ry! This way!” he cried shril­ly.

“Who’s that?” said Fred.

“No idea,” Har­ry lied, putting on a spurt of speed that took him as far away as pos­si­ble from Col­in.

“What’s go­ing on?” said Wood, frown­ing, as he skimmed through the air to­ward them. “Why’s that first year tak­ing pic­tures? I don’t like it. He could be a Slytherin spy, try­ing to find out about our new train­ing pro­gram.”

“He’s in Gryffind­or,” said Har­ry quick­ly.

“And the Slytherins don’t need a spy, Oliv­er,” said George.

“What makes you say that?” said Wood testi­ly.

“Be­cause they’re here in per­son,” said George, point­ing.

Sev­er­al peo­ple in green robes were walk­ing on­to the field, broom­sticks in their hands.

“I don’t be­lieve it!” Wood hissed in out­rage. “I booked the field for to­day! We’ll see about this!”

Wood shot to­ward the ground, land­ing rather hard­er than he meant to in his anger, stag­ger­ing slight­ly as he dis­mount­ed. Har­ry, Fred, and George fol­lowed.

“Flint!” Wood bel­lowed at the Slytherin Cap­tain. “This is our prac­tice time! We got up spe­cial­ly! You can clear off now!”

Mar­cus Flint was even larg­er than Wood. He had a look of trol­lish cun­ning on his face as he replied, “Plen­ty of room for all of us, Wood.”

An­geli­na, Ali­cia, and Katie had come over, too. There were no girls on the Slytherin team, who stood shoul­der to shoul­der, fac­ing the Gryffind­ors, leer­ing to a man.

“But I booked the field!” said Wood, pos­itive­ly spit­ting with rage. “I booked it!”

“Ah,” said Flint. “But I’ve got a spe­cial­ly signed note here from Pro­fes­sor Snape. ‘I, Pro­fes­sor S. Snape, give the Slytherin team per­mis­sion to prac­tice to­day on the Quid­ditch field ow­ing to the need to train their new Seek­er’.”

“You’ve got a new Seek­er?” said Wood, dis­tract­ed. “Where?”

And from be­hind the six large fig­ures be­fore them came a sev­enth, small­er boy, smirk­ing all over his pale, point­ed face. It was Dra­co Mal­foy.

“Aren’t you Lu­cius Mal­foy’s son?” said Fred, look­ing at Mal­foy with dis­like.

“Fun­ny you should men­tion Dra­co’s fa­ther,” said Flint as the whole Slytherin team smiled still more broad­ly. “Let me show you the gen­er­ous gift he’s made to the Slytherin team.”

All sev­en of them held out their broom­sticks. Sev­en high­ly pol­ished, brand-​new han­dles and sev­en sets of fine gold let­ter­ing spelling the words Nim­bus Two Thou­sand and One gleamed un­der the Gryffind­ors’ noses in the ear­ly morn­ing sun.

“Very lat­est mod­el. On­ly came out last month,” said Flint care­less­ly, flick­ing a speck of dust from the end of his own. “I be­lieve it out­strips the old Two Thou­sand se­ries by a con­sid­er­able amount. As for the old Clean­sweeps” — he smiled nas­ti­ly at Fred and George, who were both clutch­ing Clean­sweep Fives —“ sweeps the board with them.”

None of the Gryffind­or team could think of any­thing to say for a mo­ment. Mal­foy was smirk­ing so broad­ly his cold eyes were re­duced to slits.

“Oh, look,” said Flint. “A field in­va­sion.”

Ron and Hermione were cross­ing the grass to see what was go­ing on.

“What’s hap­pen­ing?” Ron asked Har­ry. “Why aren’t you play­ing? And what’s he do­ing here?”

He was look­ing at Mal­foy, tak­ing in his Slytherin Quid­ditch robes.

“I’m the new Slytherin Seek­er, Weasley,” said Mal­foy, smug­ly. “Ev­ery­one’s just been ad­mir­ing the brooms my fa­ther’s bought our team.

Ron gaped, open-​mouthed, at the sev­en su­perb broom­sticks in front of him.

“Good, aren’t they?” said Mal­foy smooth­ly. “But per­haps the Gryffind­or team will be able to raise some gold and get new brooms, too. You could raf­fle off those Clean­sweep Fives; I ex­pect a mu­se­um would bid for them.”

The Slytherin team howled with laugh­ter.

“At least no one on the Gryffind­or team had to buy their way in,” said Hermione sharply. “They got in on pure tal­ent.”

The smug look on Mal­foy’s face flick­ered.

“No one asked your opin­ion, you filthy lit­tle Mud­blood,” he spat.

Har­ry knew at once that Mal­foy had said some­thing re­al­ly bad be­cause there was an in­stant up­roar at his words. Flint had to dive in front of Mal­foy to stop Fred and George jump­ing on him, Ali­cia shrieked, “How dare you!” and Ron plunged his hand in­to his robes, pulled out his wand, yelling, “You’ll pay for that one, Mal­foy!” and point­ed it fu­ri­ous­ly un­der Flint’s arm at Mal­foys face.

A loud bang echoed around the sta­di­um and a jet of green light shot out of the wrong end of Ron’s wand, hit­ting him in the stom­ach and send­ing him reel­ing back­ward on­to the grass.

“Ron! Ron! Are you all right?” squealed Hermione.

Ron opened his mouth to speak, but no words came out. In­stead he gave an almighty belch and sev­er­al slugs drib­bled out of his mouth on­to his lap.

The Slytherin team were par­alyzed with laugh­ter. Flint was dou­bled up, hang­ing on­to his new broom­stick for sup­port. Mal­foy was on all fours, bang­ing the ground with his fist. The Gryffind­ors were gath­ered around Ron, who kept belch­ing large, glis­ten­ing slugs. No­body seemed to want to touch him.

“We’d bet­ter get him to Ha­grid’s, it’s near­est,” said Har­ry to Hermione, who nod­ded brave­ly, and the pair of them pulled Ron up by the arms.

“What hap­pened, Har­ry? What hap­pened? Is he ill? But you can cure him, can’t you?” Col­in had run down from his seat and was now danc­ing along­side them as they left the field. Ron gave a huge heave and more slugs drib­bled down his front.

“Oooh,” said Col­in, fas­ci­nat­ed and rais­ing his cam­era. “Can you hold him still, Har­ry?”

“Get out of the way, Col­in!” said Har­ry an­gri­ly. He and Hermione sup­port­ed Ron out of the sta­di­um and across the grounds to­ward the edge of the for­est.

“Near­ly there, Ron,” said Hermione as the game­keep­er’s cab­in came in­to view. “You’ll be all right in a minute — al­most there —”

They were with­in twen­ty feet of Ha­grid’s house when the front door opened, but it wasn’t Ha­grid who emerged. Gilderoy Lock­hart, wear­ing robes of palest mauve to­day, came strid­ing out.

“Quick, be­hind here,” Har­ry hissed, drag­ging Ron be­hind a near­by bush. Hermione fol­lowed, some­what re­luc­tant­ly.

“It’s a sim­ple mat­ter if you know what you’re do­ing!” Lock­hart was say­ing loud­ly to Ha­grid. “If you need help, you know where I am! I’ll let you have a copy of my book. I’m sur­prised you haven’t al­ready got one — I’ll sign one tonight and send it over. Well, good-​bye!” And he strode away to­ward the cas­tle.

Har­ry wait­ed un­til Lock­hart was out of sight, then pulled Ron out of the bush and up to Ha­grid’s front door. They knocked ur­gent­ly.

Ha­grid ap­peared at once, look­ing very grumpy, but his ex­pres­sion bright­ened when he saw who it was.

“Bin won­derin’ when you’d come ter see me — come in, come in — thought you migh­ta bin Pro­fes­sor Lock­hart back again —”

Har­ry and Hermione sup­port­ed Ron over the thresh­old in­to the one-​roomed cab­in, which had an enor­mous bed in one cor­ner, a fire crack­ling mer­ri­ly in the oth­er. Ha­grid didn’t seem per­turbed by Ron’s slug prob­lem, which Har­ry hasti­ly ex­plained as he low­ered Ron in­to a chair.

“Bet­ter out than in,” he said cheer­ful­ly, plunk­ing a large cop­per basin in front of him. “Get ‘em all up, Ron.”

“I don’t think there’s any­thing to do ex­cept wait for it to stop,” said Hermione anx­ious­ly, watch­ing Ron bend over the basin. “That’s a dif­fi­cult curse to work at the best of times, but with a bro­ken wand —”

Ha­grid was bustling around mak­ing them tea. His boarhound, Fang, was slob­ber­ing over Har­ry.

“What did Lock­hart want with you, Ha­grid?” Har­ry asked, scratch­ing Fang’s ears.

“Givin’ me ad­vice on get­tin’ kelpies out of a well,” growled Ha­grid, mov­ing a half-​plucked roost­er off his scrubbed ta­ble and set­ting down the teapot. “Like I don’ know. An’ ban­gin’ on about some ban­shee he ban­ished. If one word of it was true, I’ll eat my ket­tle.”

It was most un­like Ha­grid to crit­icize a Hog­warts’ teach­er, and Har­ry looked at him in sur­prise. Hermione, how­ev­er, said in a voice some­what high­er than usu­al, “I think you’re be­ing a bit un­fair. Pro­fes­sor Dum­ble­dore ob­vi­ous­ly thought he was the best man for the job —”

“He was the on’y man for the job,” said Ha­grid, of­fer­ing them a plate of trea­cle fudge, while Ron coughed squelchi­ly in­to his basin. “An’ I mean the on’y one. Get­tin’ very dif­fi­cult ter find any­one fer the Dark Arts job. Peo­ple aren’t too keen ter take it on, see. They’re startin’ ter think it’s jinxed. No one’s last­ed long fer a while now. So tell me,” said Ha­grid, jerk­ing his head at Ron. “Who was he tryin’ ter curse?”

“Mal­foy called Hermione some­thing — it must’ve been re­al­ly bad, be­cause ev­ery­one went wild.”

“It was bad,” said Ron hoarse­ly, emerg­ing over the table­top look­ing pale and sweaty. “Mal­foy called her ‘Mud­blood,’ Ha­grid —”

Ron dived out of sight again as a fresh wave of slugs made their ap­pear­ance. Ha­grid looked out­raged.

“He didn’!” he growled at Hermione.

“He did,” she said. “But I don’t know what it means. I could tell it was re­al­ly rude, of course —”

“It’s about the most in­sult­ing thing he could think of,” gasped Ron, com­ing back up. “Mud­blood’s a re­al­ly foul name for some­one who is Mug­gle-​born — you know, non-​mag­ic par­ents. There are some wiz­ards — like Mal­foy’s fam­ily — who think they’re bet­ter than ev­ery­one else be­cause they’re what peo­ple call pure-​blood.” He gave a small burp, and a sin­gle slug fell in­to his out­stretched hand. He threw it in­to the basin and con­tin­ued, “I mean, the rest of us know it doesn’t make any dif­fer­ence at all. Look at Neville Long­bot­tom — he’s pure-​blood and he can hard­ly stand a caul­dron the right way up.”

“An’ they haven’t in­vent­ed a spell our Hermione can’ do,” said Ha­grid proud­ly, mak­ing Hermione go a bril­liant shade of ma­gen­ta.

“It’s a dis­gust­ing thing to call some­one,” said Ron, wip­ing his sweaty brow with a shak­ing hand. “Dirty blood, see. Com­mon blood. It’s ridicu­lous. Most wiz­ards these days are half-​blood any­way. If we hadn’t mar­ried Mug­gles we’d’ve died out.”

He retched and ducked out of sight again.

“Well, I don’ blame yeh fer tryin’ ter curse him, Ron,” said Ha­grid loud­ly over the thuds of more slugs hit­ting the basin. “Bu’ maybe it was a good thing yer wand back­fired. ’Spect Lu­cius Mal­foy would’ve come marchin’ up ter school if yeh’d cursed his son. Least yer not in trou­ble.”

Har­ry would have point­ed out that trou­ble didn’t come much worse than hav­ing slugs pour­ing out of your mouth, but he couldn’t; Ha­grid’s trea­cle fudge had ce­ment­ed his jaws to­geth­er.

“Har­ry,” said Ha­grid abrupt­ly as though struck by a sud­den thought. “Got­ta bone ter pick with yeh. I’ve heard you’ve bin givin’ out signed pho­tos. How come I haven’t got one?”

Fu­ri­ous, Har­ry wrenched his teeth apart.

“I have not been giv­ing out signed pho­tos,” he said hot­ly. “If Lock­hart’s still spread­ing that around —”

But then he saw that Ha­grid was laugh­ing.

“I’m on’y jokin’,” he said, pat­ting Har­ry ge­nial­ly on the back and send­ing him face first in­to the ta­ble. “I knew yeh hadn’t re­al­ly. I told Lock­hart yeh didn’ need teh. Yer more fa­mous than him with­out tryin’.”

“Bet he didn’t like that,” said Har­ry, sit­ting up and rub­bing his chin.

“Don’ think he did,” said Ha­grid, his eyes twin­kling. “An’ then I told him I’d nev­er read one o’ his books an’ he de­cid­ed ter go. Trea­cle fudge, Ron?” he added as Ron reap­peared.

“No thanks,” said Ron weak­ly. “Bet­ter not risk it.”

“Come an’ see what I’ve bin growin’,” said Ha­grid as Har­ry and Hermione fin­ished the last of their tea.

In the small veg­etable patch be­hind Ha­grid’s house were a dozen of the largest pump­kins Har­ry had ev­er seen. Each was the size of a large boul­der.

“Get­tin’ on well, aren’t they?” said Ha­grid hap­pi­ly. “Fer the Hal­loween feast…should be big enough by then.”

“What’ve you been feed­ing them?” said Har­ry.

Ha­grid looked over his shoul­der to check that they were alone.

“Well, I’ve bin givin’ them — you know — a bit o’ help —”

Har­ry no­ticed Ha­grid’s flow­ery pink um­brel­la lean­ing against the back wall of the cab­in. Har­ry had had rea­son to be­lieve be­fore now that this um­brel­la was not all it looked; in fact, he had the strong im­pres­sion that Ha­grid’s old school wand was con­cealed in­side it. Ha­grid wasn’t sup­posed to use mag­ic. He had been ex­pelled from Hog­warts in his third year, but Har­ry had nev­er found out why — any men­tion of the mat­ter and Ha­grid would clear his throat loud­ly and be­come mys­te­ri­ous­ly deaf un­til the sub­ject was changed.

“An En­gorge­ment Charm, I sup­pose?” said Hermione, halfway be­tween dis­ap­proval and amuse­ment. “Well, you’ve done a good job on them.”

“That’s what yer lit­tle sis­ter said,” said Ha­grid, nod­ding at Ron. “Met her jus’ yes­ter­day.” Ha­grid looked side­ways at Har­ry, his beard twitch­ing. “Said she was jus’ lookin’ round the grounds, but I reck­on she was hopin’ she might run in­ter some­one else at my house.” He winked at Har­ry. “If yeh ask me, she wouldn’ say no ter a signed —”

“Oh, shut up,” said Har­ry. Ron snort­ed with laugh­ter and the ground was sprayed with slugs.

“Watch it!” Ha­grid roared, pulling Ron away from his pre­cious pump­kins.

It was near­ly lunchtime and as Har­ry had on­ly had one bit of trea­cle fudge since dawn, he was keen to go back to school to eat. They said good-​bye to Ha­grid and walked back up to the cas­tle, Ron hic­cough­ing oc­ca­sion­al­ly, but on­ly bring­ing up two very small slugs.

They had bare­ly set foot in the cool en­trance hall when a voice rang out, “There you are, Pot­ter — Weasley.” Pro­fes­sor McG­ona­gall was walk­ing to­ward them, look­ing stern. “You will both do your de­ten­tions this evening.”

“What’re we do­ing, Pro­fes­sor?” said Ron, ner­vous­ly sup­press­ing a burp.

“You will be pol­ish­ing the sil­ver in the tro­phy room with Mr. Filch,” said Pro­fes­sor McG­ona­gall. “And no mag­ic, Weasley — el­bow grease.”

Ron gulped. Ar­gus Filch, the care­tak­er, was loathed by ev­ery stu­dent in the school.

“And you, Pot­ter, will be help­ing Pro­fes­sor Lock­hart an­swer his fan mail,” said Pro­fes­sor McG­ona­gall.

“Oh n— Pro­fes­sor, can’t I go and do the tro­phy room, too?” said Har­ry des­per­ate­ly.

“Cer­tain­ly not,” said Pro­fes­sor McG­ona­gall, rais­ing her eye­brows. “Pro­fes­sor Lock­hart re­quest­ed you par­tic­ular­ly. Eight o’clock sharp, both of you.”

Har­ry and Ron slouched in­to the Great Hall in states of deep­est gloom, Hermione be­hind them, wear­ing a well-​you-​did-​break-​school-​rules sort of ex­pres­sion. Har­ry didn’t en­joy his shep­herd’s pie as much as he’d thought. Both he and Ron felt they’d got the worse deal.

“Filch’ll have me there all night,” said Ron heav­ily. “No mag­ic! There must be about a hun­dred cups in that room. I’m no good at Mug­gle clean­ing.”

“I’d swap any­time,” said Har­ry hol­low­ly. “I’ve had loads of prac­tice with the Durs­leys. An­swer­ing Lock­hart’s fan mail…he’ll be a night­mare….”

Sat­ur­day af­ter­noon seemed to melt away, and in what seemed like no time, it was five min­utes to eight, and Har­ry was drag­ging his feet along the sec­ond-​floor cor­ri­dor to Lock­hart’s of­fice. He grit­ted his teeth and knocked.

The door flew open at once. Lock­hart beamed down at him.

“Ah, here’s the scalawag!” he said. “Come in, Har­ry, come in —”

Shin­ing bright­ly on the walls by the light of many can­dles were count­less framed pho­tographs of Lock­hart. He had even signed a few of them. An­oth­er large pile lay on his desk.

“You can ad­dress the en­velopes!” Lock­hart told Har­ry, as though this was a huge treat.

“This first one’s to Gladys Gud­geon, bless her — huge fan of mine —”

The min­utes snailed by. Har­ry let Lock­hart’s voice wash over him, oc­ca­sion­al­ly say­ing, “Mmm” and “Right” and “Yeah.” Now and then he caught a phrase like, “Fame’s a fick­le friend, Har­ry,” or “Celebri­ty is as celebri­ty does, re­mem­ber that.”

The can­dles burned low­er and low­er, mak­ing the light dance over the many mov­ing faces of Lock­hart watch­ing him. Har­ry moved his aching hand over what felt like the thou­sandth en­ve­lope, writ­ing out Veron­ica Smeth­ley’s ad­dress. It must be near­ly time to leave, Har­ry thought mis­er­ably, please let it be near­ly time…

And then he heard some­thing — some­thing quite apart from the spit­ting of the dy­ing can­dles and Lock­hart’s prat­tle about his fans.

It was a voice, a voice to chill the bone mar­row, a voice of breath­tak­ing, ice-​cold ven­om.

“Come…come to me….Let me rip you….Let me tear you….Let me kill you….”

Har­ry gave a huge jump and a large lilac blot ap­peared on Veron­ica Smeth­ley’s street.

“What?” he said loud­ly.

“I know!” said Lock­hart. “Six sol­id months at the top of the best-​sell­er list! Broke all records!”

“No,” said Har­ry fran­ti­cal­ly. “That voice!”

“Sor­ry?” said Lock­hart, look­ing puz­zled. “What voice?”

“That — that voice that said — didn’t you hear it?”

Lock­hart was look­ing at Har­ry in high as­ton­ish­ment.

“What are you talk­ing about, Har­ry? Per­haps you’re get­ting a lit­tle drowsy? Great Scott — look at the time! We’ve been here near­ly four hours! I’d nev­er have be­lieved it — the time’s flown, hasn’t it?”

Har­ry didn’t an­swer. He was strain­ing his ears to hear the voice again, but there was no sound now ex­cept for Lock­hart telling him he mustn’t ex­pect a treat like this ev­ery time he got de­ten­tion. Feel­ing dazed, Har­ry left.

It was so late that the Gryffind­or com­mon room was al­most emp­ty. Har­ry went straight up to the dor­mi­to­ry. Ron wasn’t back yet. Har­ry pulled on his pa­ja­mas, got in­to bed, and wait­ed. Half an hour lat­er, Ron ar­rived, nurs­ing his right arm and bring­ing a strong smell of pol­ish in­to the dark­ened room.

“My mus­cles have all seized up,” he groaned, sink­ing on his bed. “Four­teen times he made me buff up that Quid­ditch cup be­fore he was sat­is­fied. And then I had an­oth­er slug at­tack all over a Spe­cial Award for Ser­vices to the School. Took ages to get the slime off…How was it with Lock­hart?”

Keep­ing his voice low so as not to wake Neville, Dean, and Sea­mus, Har­ry told Ron ex­act­ly what he had heard.

“And Lock­hart said he couldn’t hear it?” said Ron. Har­ry could see him frown­ing in the moon­light. “D’you think he was ly­ing? But I don’t get it — even some­one in­vis­ible would’ve had to open the door.”

“I know,” said Har­ry, ly­ing back in his four-​poster and star­ing at the canopy above him. “I don’t get it ei­ther.”





HP 2 - Harry Potter and The Chamber of Secrets





CHAPTER EIGHT




THE DEATH­DAY PAR­TY

O cto­ber ar­rived, spread­ing a damp chill over the grounds and in­to the cas­tle. Madam Pom­frey, the nurse, was kept busy by a sud­den spate of colds among the staff and stu­dents. Her Pep­pe­rup po­tion worked in­stant­ly, though it left the drinker smok­ing at the ears for sev­er­al hours af­ter­ward. Gin­ny Weasley, who had been look­ing pale, was bul­lied in­to tak­ing some by Per­cy. The steam pour­ing from un­der her vivid hair gave the im­pres­sion that her whole head was on fire. Rain­drops the size of bul­lets thun­dered on the cas­tle win­dows for days on end; the lake rose, the flow­er beds turned in­to mud­dy streams, and Ha­grid’s pump­kins swelled to the size of gar­den sheds. Oliv­er Wood’s en­thu­si­asm for reg­ular train­ing ses­sions, how­ev­er, was not damp­ened, which was why Har­ry was to be found, late one stormy Sat­ur­day af­ter­noon a few days be­fore Hal­loween, re­turn­ing to Gryffind­or Tow­er, drenched to the skin and splat­tered with mud.

Even aside from the rain and wind it hadn’t been a hap­py prac­tice ses­sion. Fred and George, who had been spy­ing on the Slytherin team, had seen for them­selves the speed of those new Nim­bus Two Thou­sand and Ones. They re­port­ed that the Slytherin team was no more than sev­en green­ish blurs, shoot­ing through the air like mis­siles. As Har­ry squelched along the de­sert­ed cor­ri­dor he came across some­body who looked just as pre­oc­cu­pied as he was. Near­ly Head­less Nick, the ghost of Gryffind­or Tow­er, was star­ing mo­rose­ly out of a win­dow, mut­ter­ing un­der his breath, “…don’t ful­fill their re­quire­ments…half an inch, if that…”

“Hel­lo, Nick,” said Har­ry.

“Hel­lo, hel­lo,” said Near­ly Head­less Nick, start­ing and look­ing round. He wore a dash­ing, plumed hat on his long curly hair, and a tu­nic with a ruff, which con­cealed the fact that his neck was al­most com­plete­ly sev­ered. He was pale as smoke, and Har­ry could see right through him to the dark sky and tor­ren­tial rain out­side.

“You look trou­bled, young Pot­ter,” said Nick, fold­ing a trans­par­ent let­ter as he spoke and tuck­ing it in­side his dou­blet.

“So do you,” said Har­ry.

“Ah,” Near­ly Head­less Nick waved an el­egant hand, “a mat­ter of no im­por­tance…It’s not as though I re­al­ly want­ed to join…Thought I’d ap­ply, but ap­par­ent­ly I ‘don’t ful­fill re­quire­ments’ —”

In spite of his airy tone, there was a look of great bit­ter­ness on his face.

“But you would think, wouldn’t you,” he erupt­ed sud­den­ly, pulling the let­ter back out of his pock­et, “that get­ting hit forty-​five times in the neck with a blunt axe would qual­ify you to join the Head­less Hunt?”

“Oh — yes,” said Har­ry, who was ob­vi­ous­ly sup­posed to agree.

“I mean, no­body wish­es more than I do that it had all been quick and clean, and my head had come off prop­er­ly, I mean, it would have saved me a great deal of pain and ridicule. How­ev­er —” Near­ly Head­less Nick shook his let­ter open and read fu­ri­ous­ly:



“‘We can on­ly ac­cept hunts­men whose heads have part­ed com­pa­ny with their bod­ies. You will ap­pre­ci­ate that it would be im­pos­si­ble oth­er­wise for mem­bers to par­tic­ipate in hunt ac­tiv­ities such as Horse­back Head-​Jug­gling and Head Po­lo. It is with the great­est re­gret, there­fore, that I must in­form you that you do not ful­fill our re­quire­ments. With very best wish­es, Sir Patrick De­laney-​Pod­more.’”



Fum­ing, Near­ly Head­less Nick stuffed the let­ter away.

“Half an inch of skin and sinew hold­ing my neck on, Har­ry! Most peo­ple would think that’s good and be­head­ed, but oh, no, it’s not enough for Sir Prop­er­ly De­cap­itat­ed-​Pod­more.”

Near­ly Head­less Nick took sev­er­al deep breaths and then said, in a far calmer tone, “So — what’s both­er­ing you? Any­thing I can do?”

“No,” said Har­ry. “Not un­less you know where we can get sev­en free Nim­bus Two Thou­sand and Ones for our match against Sly—”

The rest of Har­ry’s sen­tence was drowned out by a high-​pitched mewl­ing from some­where near his an­kles. He looked down and found him­self gaz­ing in­to a pair of lamp-​like yel­low eyes. It was Mrs. Nor­ris, the skele­tal gray cat who was used by the care­tak­er, Ar­gus Filch, as a sort of deputy in his end­less bat­tle against stu­dents.

“You’d bet­ter get out of here, Har­ry,” said Nick quick­ly. “Filch isn’t in a good mood — he’s got the flu and some third years ac­ci­den­tal­ly plas­tered frog brains all over the ceil­ing in dun­geon five. He’s been clean­ing all morn­ing, and if he sees you drip­ping mud all over the place —”

“Right,” said Har­ry, back­ing away from the ac­cus­ing stare of Mrs. Nor­ris, but not quick­ly enough. Drawn to the spot by the mys­te­ri­ous pow­er that seemed to con­nect him with his foul cat, Ar­gus Filch burst sud­den­ly through a tapestry to Har­ry’s right, wheez­ing and look­ing wild­ly about for the rule-​break­er. There was a thick tar­tan scarf bound around his head, and his nose was un­usu­al­ly pur­ple.

“Filth!” he shout­ed, his jowls aquiver, his eyes pop­ping alarm­ing­ly as he point­ed at the mud­dy pud­dle that had dripped from Har­ry’s Quid­ditch robes. “Mess and muck ev­ery­where! I’ve had enough of it, I tell you! Fol­low me, Pot­ter!”

So Har­ry waved a gloomy good-​bye to Near­ly Head­less Nick and fol­lowed Filch back down­stairs, dou­bling the num­ber of mud­dy foot­prints on the floor. Har­ry had nev­er been in­side Filch’s of­fice be­fore; it was a place most stu­dents avoid­ed. The room was dingy and win­dow­less, lit by a sin­gle oil lamp dan­gling from the low ceil­ing. A faint smell of fried fish lin­gered about the place. Wood­en fil­ing cab­inets stood around the walls; from their la­bels, Har­ry could see that they con­tained de­tails of ev­ery pupil Filch had ev­er pun­ished. Fred and George Weasley had an en­tire draw­er to them­selves. A high­ly pol­ished col­lec­tion of chains and man­acles hung on the wall be­hind Filch’s desk. It was com­mon knowl­edge that he was al­ways beg­ging Dum­ble­dore to let him sus­pend stu­dents by their an­kles from the ceil­ing.

Filch grabbed a quill from a pot on his desk and be­gan shuf­fling around look­ing for parch­ment.

“Dung,” he mut­tered fu­ri­ous­ly, “great siz­zling drag­on bo­gies…frog brains…rat in­testines…I’ve had enough of it…make an ex­am­ple…where’s the form…yes…”

He re­trieved a large roll of parch­ment from his desk draw­er and stretched it out in front of him, dip­ping his long black quill in­to the ink pot.

“Name…Har­ry Pot­ter. Crime…”

“It was on­ly a bit of mud!” said Har­ry.

“It’s on­ly a bit of mud to you, boy, but to me it’s an ex­tra hour scrub­bing!” shout­ed Filch, a drip shiv­er­ing un­pleas­ant­ly at the end of his bul­bous nose. “Crime…be­foul­ing the cas­tle…sug­gest­ed sen­tence…”

Dab­bing at his stream­ing nose, Filch squint­ed un­pleas­ant­ly at Har­ry who wait­ed with bat­ed breath for his sen­tence to fall.

But as Filch low­ered his quill, there was a great BANG! on the ceil­ing of the of­fice, which made the oil lamp rat­tle.

“PEEVES!” Filch roared, fling­ing down his quill in a trans­port of rage. “I’ll have you this time, I’ll have you!”

And with­out a back­ward glance at Har­ry, Filch ran flat-​foot­ed from the of­fice, Mrs. Nor­ris streak­ing along­side him.

Peeves was the school poltergeist, a grin­ning, air­borne men­ace who lived to cause hav­oc and dis­tress. Har­ry didn’t much like Peeves, but couldn’t help feel­ing grate­ful for his tim­ing. Hope­ful­ly, what­ev­er Peeves had done (and it sound­ed as though he’d wrecked some­thing very big this time) would dis­tract Filch from Har­ry.

Think­ing that he should prob­ably wait for Filch to come back, Har­ry sank in­to a moth-​eat­en chair next to the desk. There was on­ly one thing on it apart from his half-​com­plet­ed form: a large, glossy, pur­ple en­ve­lope with sil­ver let­ter­ing on the front. With a quick glance at the door to check that Filch wasn’t on his way back, Har­ry picked up the en­ve­lope and read:



Kwik­spell

A Cor­re­spon­dence Course in Be­gin­ners’ Mag­ic.



In­trigued, Har­ry flicked the en­ve­lope open and pulled out the sheaf of parch­ment in­side. More curly sil­ver writ­ing on the front page said:



Feel out of step in the world of mod­ern mag­ic? Find your­self mak­ing ex­cus­es not to per­form sim­ple spells? Ev­er been taunt­ed for your woe­ful wand­work?

There is an an­swer!



Kwik­spell is an all-​new, fail-​safe, quick-​re­sult, easy-​learn course. Hun­dreds of witch­es and wiz­ards have ben­efit­ed from the Kwik­spell method!



Madam Z. Net­tles of Top­sham writes:

“I had no mem­ory for in­can­ta­tions and my po­tions were a fam­ily joke! Now, af­ter a Kwik­spell course, I am the cen­ter of at­ten­tion at par­ties and friends beg for the recipe of my Scin­til­la­tion So­lu­tion!”

War­lock D. J. Prod of Dids­bury says:

“My wife used to sneer at my fee­ble charms, but one month in­to your fab­ulous Kwik­spell course and I suc­ceed­ed in turn­ing her in­to a yak! Thank you, Kwik­spell!”



Fas­ci­nat­ed, Har­ry thumbed through the rest of the en­ve­lope’s con­tents. Why on earth did Filch want a Kwik­spell course? Did this mean he wasn’t a prop­er wiz­ard? Har­ry was just read­ing “Les­son One: Hold­ing Your Wand (Some Use­ful Tips)” when shuf­fling foot­steps out­side told him Filch was com­ing back. Stuff­ing the parch­ment back in­to the en­ve­lope, Har­ry threw it back on­to the desk just as the door opened.

Filch was look­ing tri­umphant.

“That van­ish­ing cab­inet was ex­treme­ly valu­able!” he was say­ing glee­ful­ly to Mrs. Nor­ris. “We’ll have Peeves out this time, my sweet —”

His eyes fell on Har­ry and then dart­ed to the Kwik­spell en­ve­lope, which, Har­ry re­al­ized too late, was ly­ing two feet away from where it had start­ed.

Filch’s pasty face went brick red. Har­ry braced him­self for a tidal wave of fury. Filch hob­bled across to his desk, snatched up the en­ve­lope, and threw it in­to a draw­er.

“Have you — did you read —?” he sput­tered.

“No,” Har­ry lied quick­ly.

Filch’s knob­bly hands were twist­ing to­geth­er.

“If I thought you’d read my pri­vate —not that it’s mine — for a friend — be that as it may — how­ev­er —”

Har­ry was star­ing at him, alarmed; Filch had nev­er looked mad­der. His eyes were pop­ping, a tic was go­ing in one of his pouchy cheeks, and the tar­tan scarf didn’t help.

“Very well — go — and don’t breathe a word — not that — how­ev­er, if you didn’t read — go now, I have to write up Peeves’ re­port — go —”

Amazed at his luck, Har­ry sped out of the of­fice, up the cor­ri­dor, and back up­stairs. To es­cape from Filch’s of­fice with­out pun­ish­ment was prob­ably some kind of school record.

“Har­ry! Har­ry! Did it work?”

Near­ly Head­less Nick came glid­ing out of a class­room. Be­hind him, Har­ry could see the wreck­age of a large black-​and-​gold cab­inet that ap­peared to have been dropped from a great height.

“I per­suad­ed Peeves to crash it right over Filch’s of­fice,” said Nick ea­ger­ly. “Thought it might dis­tract him —”

“Was that you?” said Har­ry grate­ful­ly. “Yeah, it worked, I didn’t even get de­ten­tion. Thanks, Nick!”

They set off up the cor­ri­dor to­geth­er. Near­ly Head­less Nick, Har­ry no­ticed, was still hold­ing Sir Patrick’s re­jec­tion let­ter…

“I wish there was some­thing I could do for you about the Head­less Hunt,” Har­ry said. Near­ly Head­less Nick stopped in his tracks and Har­ry walked right through him. He wished he hadn’t; it was like step­ping through an icy show­er.

“But there is some­thing you could do for me,” said Nick ex­cit­ed­ly. “Har­ry — would I be ask­ing too much — but no, you wouldn’t want —”

“What is it?” said Har­ry. “Well, this Hal­loween will be my five hun­dredth death­day,” said Near­ly Head­less Nick, draw­ing him­self up and look­ing dig­ni­fied.

“Oh,” said Har­ry, not sure whether he should look sor­ry or hap­py about this. “Right.”

“I’m hold­ing a par­ty down in one of the roomi­er dun­geons. Friends will be com­ing from all over the coun­try. It would be such an hon­or if you would at­tend. Mr. Weasley and Miss Granger would be most wel­come, too, of course — but I dare­say you’d rather go to the school feast?” He watched Har­ry on ten­ter­hooks.

“No,” said Har­ry quick­ly, “I’ll come —”

“My dear boy! Har­ry Pot­ter, at my death­day par­ty! And —” he hes­itat­ed, look­ing ex­cit­ed “— do you think you could pos­si­bly men­tion to Sir Patrick how very fright­en­ing and im­pres­sive you find me?”

“Of — of course,” said Har­ry.

Near­ly Head­less Nick beamed at him.



“A death­day par­ty?” said Hermione keen­ly when Har­ry had changed at last and joined her and Ron in the com­mon room. “I bet there aren’t many liv­ing peo­ple who can say they’ve been to one of those — it’ll be fas­ci­nat­ing!”

“Why would any­one want to cel­ebrate the day they died?” said Ron, who was halfway through his Po­tions home­work and grumpy. “Sounds dead de­press­ing to me…”



Rain was still lash­ing the win­dows, which were now inky black, but in­side all looked bright and cheer­ful. The fire­light glowed over the count­less squashy arm­chairs where peo­ple sat read­ing, talk­ing, do­ing home­work or, in the case of Fred and George Weasley, try­ing to find out what would hap­pen if you fed a Fil­ibuster fire­work to a sala­man­der. Fred had “res­cued” the bril­liant or­ange, fire-​dwelling lizard from a Care of Mag­ical Crea­tures class and it was now smoul­der­ing gen­tly on a ta­ble sur­round­ed by a knot of cu­ri­ous peo­ple.

Har­ry was at the point of telling Ron and Hermione about Filch and the Kwik­spell course when the sala­man­der sud­den­ly whizzed in­to the air, emit­ting loud sparks and bangs as it whirled wild­ly round the room. The sight of Per­cy bel­low­ing him­self hoarse at Fred and George, the spec­tac­ular dis­play of tan­ger­ine stars show­er­ing from the sala­man­der’s mouth, and its es­cape in­to the fire, with ac­com­pa­ny­ing ex­plo­sions, drove both Filch and the Kwik­spell en­ve­lope from Har­ry’s mind.



By the time Hal­loween ar­rived, Har­ry was re­gret­ting his rash promise to go to the death­day par­ty. The rest of the school was hap­pi­ly an­tic­ipat­ing their Hal­loween feast; the Great Hall had been dec­orat­ed with the usu­al live bats, Ha­grid’s vast pump­kins had been carved in­to lanterns large enough for three men to sit in, and there were ru­mors that Dum­ble­dore had booked a troupe of danc­ing skele­tons for the en­ter­tain­ment.

“A promise is a promise,” Hermione re­mind­ed Har­ry boss­ily. “You said you’d go to the death­day par­ty.”

So at sev­en o’clock, Har­ry, Ron, and Hermione walked straight past the door­way to the packed Great Hall, which was glit­ter­ing invit­ing­ly with gold plates and can­dles, and di­rect­ed their steps in­stead to­ward the dun­geons.

The pas­sage­way lead­ing to Near­ly Head­less Nick’s par­ty had been lined with can­dles, too, though the ef­fect was far from cheer­ful: These were long, thin, jet-​black ta­pers, all burn­ing bright blue, cast­ing a dim, ghost­ly light even over their own liv­ing faces. The tem­per­ature dropped with ev­ery step they took. As Har­ry shiv­ered and drew his robes tight­ly around him, he heard what sound­ed like a thou­sand fin­ger­nails scrap­ing an enor­mous black­board.

“Is that sup­posed to be mu­sic?” Ron whis­pered. They turned a cor­ner and saw Near­ly Head­less Nick stand­ing at a door­way hung with black vel­vet drapes.

“My dear friends,” he said mourn­ful­ly. “Wel­come, wel­come…so pleased you could come…”

He swept off his plumed hat and bowed them in­side.

It was an in­cred­ible sight. The dun­geon was full of hun­dreds of pearly-​white, translu­cent peo­ple, most­ly drift­ing around a crowd­ed dance floor, waltz­ing to the dread­ful, qua­ver­ing sound of thir­ty mu­si­cal saws, played by an or­ches­tra on a raised, black-​draped plat­form. A chan­de­lier over­head blazed mid­night-​blue with a thou­sand more black can­dles. Their breath rose in a mist be­fore them; it was like step­ping in­to a freez­er.

“Shall we have a look around?” Har­ry sug­gest­ed, want­ing to warm up his feet.

“Care­ful not to walk through any­one,” said Ron ner­vous­ly, and they set off around the edge of the dance floor. They passed a group of gloomy nuns, a ragged man wear­ing chains, and the Fat Fri­ar, a cheer­ful Huf­flepuff ghost, who was talk­ing to a knight with an ar­row stick­ing out of his fore­head. Har­ry wasn’t sur­prised to see that the Bloody Baron, a gaunt, star­ing Slytherin ghost cov­ered in sil­ver blood­stains, was be­ing giv­en a wide berth by the oth­er ghosts.

“Oh, no,” said Hermione, stop­ping abrupt­ly. “Turn back, turn back, I don’t want to talk to Moan­ing Myr­tle —”

“Who?” said Har­ry as they back­tracked quick­ly.

“She haunts one of the toi­lets in the girls’ bath­room on the first floor,” said Hermione.

“She haunts a toi­let?”

“Yes. It’s been out-​of-​or­der all year be­cause she keeps hav­ing tantrums and flood­ing the place. I nev­er went in there any­way if I could avoid it; it’s aw­ful try­ing to have a pee with her wail­ing at you —”

“Look, food!” said Ron.

On the oth­er side of the dun­geon was a long ta­ble, al­so cov­ered in black vel­vet. They ap­proached it ea­ger­ly but next mo­ment had stopped in their tracks, hor­ri­fied. The smell was quite dis­gust­ing. Large, rot­ten fish were laid on hand­some sil­ver plat­ters; cakes, burned char­coal-​black, were heaped on salvers; there was a great mag­goty hag­gis, a slab of cheese cov­ered in fur­ry green mold and, in pride of place, an enor­mous gray cake in the shape of a tomb­stone, with tar-​like ic­ing form­ing the words,



SIR NICHOLAS DE MIM­SY-​POR­PING­TON

DIED 31ST OC­TO­BER, 1492



Har­ry watched, amazed, as a port­ly ghost ap­proached the ta­ble, crouched low, and walked through it, his mouth held wide so that it passed through one of the stink­ing salmon.

“Can you taste it if you walk though it?” Har­ry asked him.

“Al­most,” said the ghost sad­ly, and he drift­ed away.

“I ex­pect they’ve let it rot to give it a stronger fla­vor,” said Hermione knowl­edge­ably, pinch­ing her nose and lean­ing clos­er to look at the pu­trid hag­gis.

“Can we move? I feel sick,” said Ron.

They had bare­ly turned around, how­ev­er, when a lit­tle man swooped sud­den­ly from un­der the ta­ble and came to a halt in midair be­fore them.

“Hel­lo, Peeves,” said Har­ry cau­tious­ly.

Un­like the ghosts around them, Peeves the Poltergeist was the very re­verse of pale and trans­par­ent. He was wear­ing a bright or­ange par­ty hat, a re­volv­ing bow tie, and a broad grin on his wide, wicked face.

“Nib­bles?” he said sweet­ly, of­fer­ing them a bowl of peanuts cov­ered in fun­gus.

“No thanks,” said Hermione.

“Heard you talk­ing about poor Myr­tle,” said Peeves, his eyes danc­ing. “Rude you was about poor Myr­tle.” He took a deep breath and bel­lowed, “OY! MYR­TLE!”

“Oh, no, Peeves, don’t tell her what I said, she’ll be re­al­ly up­set,” Hermione whis­pered fran­ti­cal­ly. “I didn’t mean it, I don’t mind her — er, hel­lo, Myr­tle.”

The squat ghost of a girl had glid­ed over. She had the glummest face Har­ry had ev­er seen, half-​hid­den be­hind lank hair and thick, pearly spec­ta­cles.

“What?” she said sulk­ily.

“How are you, Myr­tle?” said Hermione in a false­ly bright voice. “It’s nice to see you out of the toi­let.”

Myr­tle sniffed.

“Miss Granger was just talk­ing about you —” said Peeves sly­ly in Myr­tle’s ear. “Just say­ing —”

“Just say­ing — say­ing — how nice you look tonight,” said Hermione, glar­ing at Peeves.

Myr­tle eyed Hermione sus­pi­cious­ly.

“You’re mak­ing fun of me,” she said, sil­ver tears welling rapid­ly in her small, see-​through eyes.

“No — hon­est­ly — didn’t I just say how nice Myr­tle’s look­ing?” said Hermione, nudg­ing Har­ry and Ron painful­ly in the ribs.

“Oh, yeah —”

“She did —”

“Don’t lie to me,” Myr­tle gasped, tears now flood­ing down her face, while Peeves chuck­led hap­pi­ly over her shoul­der. “D’you think I don’t know what peo­ple call me be­hind my back? Fat Myr­tle! Ug­ly Myr­tle! Mis­er­able, moan­ing, mop­ing Myr­tle!”

“You’ve for­got­ten pim­ply,” Peeves hissed in her ear.

Moan­ing Myr­tle burst in­to an­guished sobs and fled from the dun­geon. Peeves shot af­ter her, pelt­ing her with moldy peanuts, yelling, “Pim­ply! Pim­ply!”

“Oh, dear,” said Hermione sad­ly.

Near­ly Head­less Nick now drift­ed to­ward them through the crowd.

“En­joy­ing your­selves?”

“Oh, yes,” they lied.

“Not a bad turnout,” said Near­ly Head­less Nick proud­ly. “The Wail­ing Wid­ow came all the way up from Kent…It’s near­ly time for my speech, I’d bet­ter go and warn the or­ches­tra…”

The or­ches­tra, how­ev­er, stopped play­ing at that very mo­ment. They, and ev­ery­one else in the dun­geon, fell silent, look­ing around in ex­cite­ment, as a hunt­ing horn sound­ed.

“Oh, here we go,” said Near­ly Head­less Nick bit­ter­ly.

Through the dun­geon wall burst a dozen ghost hors­es, each rid­den by a head­less horse­man. The as­sem­bly clapped wild­ly; Har­ry start­ed to clap, too, but stopped quick­ly at the sight of Nick’s face.

The hors­es gal­loped in­to the mid­dle of the dance floor and halt­ed, rear­ing and plung­ing. At the front of the pack was a large ghost who held his beard­ed head un­der his arm, from which po­si­tion he was blow­ing the horn. The ghost leapt down, lift­ed his head high in the air so he could see over the crowd (ev­ery­one laughed), and strode over to Near­ly Head­less Nick, squash­ing his head back on­to his neck.

“Nick!” he roared. “How are you? Head still hang­ing in there?”

He gave a hearty guf­faw and clapped Near­ly Head­less Nick on the shoul­der.

“Wel­come, Patrick,” said Nick stiffly.

“Live ’uns!” said Sir Patrick, spot­ting Har­ry, Ron, and Hermione and giv­ing a huge, fake jump of as­ton­ish­ment, so that his head fell off again (the crowd howled with laugh­ter).

“Very amus­ing,” said Near­ly Head­less Nick dark­ly.

“Don’t mind Nick!” shout­ed Sir Patrick’s head from the floor. “Still up­set we won’t let him join the Hunt! But I mean to say — look at the fel­low —”

“I think,” said Har­ry hur­ried­ly, at a mean­ing­ful look from Nick, “Nick’s very — fright­en­ing and — er —”

“Ha!” yelled Sir Patrick’s head.

“Bet he asked you to say that!”

“If I could have ev­ery­one’s at­ten­tion, it’s time for my speech!” said Near­ly Head­less Nick loud­ly, strid­ing to­ward the podi­um and climb­ing in­to an icy blue spot­light.

“My late lament­ed lords, ladies, and gen­tle­men, it is my great sor­row…”

But no­body heard much more. Sir Patrick and the rest of the Head­less Hunt had just start­ed a game of Head Hock­ey and the crowd were turn­ing to watch. Near­ly Head­less Nick tried vain­ly to re­cap­ture his au­di­ence, but gave up as Sir Patrick’s head went sail­ing past him to loud cheers.

Har­ry was very cold by now, not to men­tion hun­gry.

“I can’t stand much more of this,” Ron mut­tered, his teeth chat­ter­ing, as the or­ches­tra ground back in­to ac­tion and the ghosts swept back on­to the dance floor.

“Let’s go,” Har­ry agreed.

They backed to­ward the door, nod­ding and beam­ing at any­one who looked at them, and a minute lat­er were hur­ry­ing back up the pas­sage­way full of black can­dles.

“Pud­ding might not be fin­ished yet,” said Ron hope­ful­ly, lead­ing the way to­ward the steps to the en­trance hall.

And then Har­ry heard it.

“…rip…tear…kill…”

It was the same voice, the same cold, mur­der­ous voice he had heard in Lock­hart’s of­fice.

He stum­bled to a halt, clutch­ing at the stone wall, lis­ten­ing with all his might, look­ing around, squint­ing up and down the dim­ly lit pas­sage­way.

“Har­ry, what’re you —?”

“It’s that voice again — shut up a minute —”

“…soo hun­gry…for so long…”

“Lis­ten!” said Har­ry ur­gent­ly, and Ron and Hermione froze, watch­ing him.

“…kill…time to kill…”

The voice was grow­ing fainter. Har­ry was sure it was mov­ing away — mov­ing up­ward. A mix­ture of fear and ex­cite­ment gripped him as he stared at the dark ceil­ing; how could it be mov­ing up­ward? Was it a phan­tom, to whom stone ceil­ings didn’t mat­ter?

“This way,” he shout­ed, and he be­gan to run, up the stairs, in­to the en­trance hall. It was no good hop­ing to hear any­thing here, the bab­ble of talk from the Hal­loween feast was echo­ing out of the Great Hall. Har­ry sprint­ed up the mar­ble stair­case to the first floor, Ron and Hermione clat­ter­ing be­hind him.

“Har­ry, what’re we —”

“SHH!”

Har­ry strained his ears. Dis­tant­ly, from the floor above, and grow­ing fainter still, he heard the voice: “…I smell blood…I SMELL BLOOD!”

His stom­ach lurched —

“It’s go­ing to kill some­one!” he shout­ed, and ig­nor­ing Ron’s and Hermione’s be­wil­dered faces, he ran up the next flight of steps three at a time, try­ing to lis­ten over his own pound­ing foot­steps — Har­ry hur­tled around the whole of the sec­ond floor, Ron and Hermione pant­ing be­hind him, not stop­ping un­til they turned a cor­ner in­to the last, de­sert­ed pas­sage.

“Har­ry, what was that all about?” said Ron, wip­ing sweat off his face. “I couldn’t hear any­thing…”

But Hermione gave a sud­den gasp, point­ing down the cor­ri­dor.

“Look!”

Some­thing was shin­ing on the wall ahead. They ap­proached slow­ly, squint­ing through the dark­ness. Foot-​high words had been daubed on the wall be­tween two win­dows, shim­mer­ing in the light cast by the flam­ing torch­es.



THE CHAM­BER OF SE­CRETS HAS BEEN

OPENED. EN­EMIES OF THE HEIR, BE­WARE



“What’s that thing — hang­ing un­der­neath?” said Ron, a slight quiver in his voice.

As they edged near­er, Har­ry al­most slipped — there was a large pud­dle of wa­ter on the floor; Ron and Hermione grabbed him, and they inched to­ward the mes­sage, eyes fixed on a dark shad­ow be­neath it. All three of them re­al­ized what it was at once, and leapt back­ward with a splash.

Mrs. Nor­ris, the care­tak­er’s cat, was hang­ing by her tail from the torch brack­et. She was stiff as a board, her eyes wide and star­ing.

For a few sec­onds, they didn’t move. Then Ron said, “Let’s get out of here.”

“Shouldn’t we try and help —” Har­ry be­gan awk­ward­ly.

“Trust me,” said Ron. “We don’t want to be found here.”

But it was too late. A rum­ble, as though of dis­tant thun­der, told them that the feast had just end­ed. From ei­ther end of the cor­ri­dor where they stood came the sound of hun­dreds of feet climb­ing the stairs, and the loud, hap­py talk of well-​fed peo­ple; next mo­ment, stu­dents were crash­ing in­to the pas­sage from both ends.

The chat­ter, the bus­tle, the noise died sud­den­ly as the peo­ple in front spot­ted the hang­ing cat. Har­ry, Ron, and Hermione stood alone, in the mid­dle of the cor­ri­dor, as si­lence fell among the mass of stu­dents press­ing for­ward to see the gris­ly sight.

Then some­one shout­ed through the qui­et.

“En­emies of the Heir, be­ware! You’ll be next, Mud­bloods!”

It was Dra­co Mal­foy. He had pushed to the front of the crowd, his cold eyes alive, his usu­al­ly blood­less face flushed, as he grinned at the sight of the hang­ing, im­mo­bile cat.





HP 2 - Harry Potter and The Chamber of Secrets





CHAPTER NINE




THE WRIT­ING ON THE WALL



W hat’s go­ing on here? What’s go­ing on?”

At­tract­ed no doubt by Mal­foy’s shout, Ar­gus Filch came shoul­der­ing his way through the crowd. Then he saw Mrs. Nor­ris and fell back, clutch­ing his face in hor­ror.

“My cat! My cat! What’s hap­pened to Mrs. Nor­ris?” he shrieked.

And his pop­ping eyes fell on Har­ry.

“You!”he screeched. “You! You’ve mur­dered my cat! You’ve killed her! I’ll kill you! I’ll —”

“Ar­gus!”

Dum­ble­dore had ar­rived on the scene, fol­lowed by a num­ber of oth­er teach­ers. In sec­onds, he had swept past Har­ry, Ron, and Hermione and de­tached Mrs. Nor­ris from the torch brack­et.

“Come with me, Ar­gus,” he said to Filch. “You, too, Mr. Pot­ter, Mr. Weasley, Miss Granger.”

Lock­hart stepped for­ward ea­ger­ly.

“My of­fice is near­est, Head­mas­ter — just up­stairs — please feel free —”

“Thank you, Gilderoy,” said Dum­ble­dore.

The silent crowd part­ed to let them pass. Lock­hart, look­ing ex­cit­ed and im­por­tant, hur­ried af­ter Dum­ble­dore; so did Pro­fes­sors McG­ona­gall and Snape.

As they en­tered Lock­hart’s dark­ened of­fice there was a flur­ry of move­ment across the walls; Har­ry saw sev­er­al of the Lock­harts in the pic­tures dodg­ing out of sight, their hair in rollers. The re­al Lock­hart lit the can­dles on his desk and stood back. Dum­ble­dore lay Mrs. Nor­ris on the pol­ished sur­face and be­gan to ex­am­ine her. Har­ry, Ron, and Hermione ex­changed tense looks and sank in­to chairs out­side the pool of can­dle­light, watch­ing.

The tip of Dum­ble­dore’s long, crooked nose was bare­ly an inch from Mrs. Nor­ris’s fur. He was look­ing at her close­ly through his half-​moon spec­ta­cles, his long fin­gers gen­tly prod­ding and pok­ing. Pro­fes­sor McG­ona­gall was bent al­most as close, her eyes nar­rowed. Snape loomed be­hind them, half in shad­ow, wear­ing a most pe­cu­liar ex­pres­sion: It was as though he was try­ing hard not to smile. And Lock­hart was hov­er­ing around all of them, mak­ing sug­ges­tions.

“It was def­inite­ly a curse that killed her — prob­ably the Trans­mo­gri­fi­an Tor­ture — I’ve seen it used many times, so un­lucky I wasn’t there, I know the very coun­ter­curse that would have saved her.…”

Lock­hart’s com­ments were punc­tu­at­ed by Filch’s dry, rack­ing sobs. He was slumped in a chair by the desk, un­able to look at Mrs. Nor­ris, his face in his hands. Much as he de­test­ed Filch, Har­ry couldn’t help feel­ing a bit sor­ry for him, though not near­ly as sor­ry as he felt for him­self If Dum­ble­dore be­lieved Filch, he would be ex­pelled for sure.

Dum­ble­dore was now mut­ter­ing strange words un­der his breath and tap­ping Mrs. Nor­ris with his wand but noth­ing hap­pened. She con­tin­ued to look as though she had been re­cent­ly stuffed.

“…I re­mem­ber some­thing very sim­ilar hap­pen­ing in Oua­gado­gou,” said Lock­hart, “a se­ries of at­tacks, the full sto­ry’s in my au­to­bi­og­ra­phy, I was able to pro­vide the towns­folk with var­ious amulets, which cleared the mat­ter up at once.…”

The pho­tographs of Lock­hart on the walls were all nod­ding in agree­ment as he talked. One of them had for­got­ten to re­move his hair net.

At last Dum­ble­dore straight­ened up.

“She’s not dead, Ar­gus,” he said soft­ly.

Lock­hart stopped abrupt­ly in the mid­dle of count­ing the num­ber of mur­ders he had pre­vent­ed.

“Not dead?” choked Filch, look­ing through his fin­gers at Mrs. Nor­ris. “But why’s she all — all stiff and frozen?”

“She has been Pet­ri­fied,” said Dum­ble­dore (“Ah! I thought so!” said Lock­hart). “But how, I can­not say…”

“Ask him!” shrieked Filch, turn­ing his blotched and tearstained face to Har­ry.

“No sec­ond year could have done this,” said Dum­ble­dore firm­ly. “it would take Dark Mag­ic of the most ad­vanced —”

“He did it, he did it!” Filch spat, his pouchy face pur­pling. “You saw what he wrote on the wall! He found — in my of­fice — he knows I’m a — I’m a —” Filch’s face worked hor­ri­bly. “He knows I’m a Squib!” he fin­ished.

“I nev­er touched Mrs. Nor­ris!” Har­ry said loud­ly, un­com­fort­ably aware of ev­ery­one look­ing at him, in­clud­ing all the Lock­harts on the walls. “And I don’t even know what a Squib is.”

“Rub­bish!” snarled Filch. “He saw my Kwik­spell let­ter!”

“If I might speak, Head­mas­ter,” said Snape from the shad­ows, and Har­ry’s sense of fore­bod­ing in­creased; he was sure noth­ing Snape had to say was go­ing to do him any good.

“Pot­ter and his friends may have sim­ply been in the wrong place at the wrong time,” he said, a slight sneer curl­ing his mouth as though he doubt­ed it. “But we do have a set of sus­pi­cious cir­cum­stances here. Why was he in the up­stairs cor­ri­dor at all? Why wasn’t he at the Hal­loween feast?”

Har­ry, Ron and Hermione all launched in­to an ex­pla­na­tion about the death­day par­ty. “…there were hun­dreds of ghosts, they’ll tell you we were there —”

“But why not join the feast af­ter­ward?” said Snape, his black eyes glit­ter­ing in the can­dle­light. “Why go up to that cor­ri­dor?”

Ron and Hermione looked at Har­ry.

“Be­cause — be­cause —” Har­ry said, his heart thump­ing very fast; some­thing told him it would sound very far-​fetched if he told them he had been led there by a bod­iless voice no one but he could hear, “be­cause we were tired and want­ed to go to bed,” he said.

“With­out any sup­per?” said Snape, a tri­umphant smile flick­er­ing across his gaunt face. “I didn’t think ghosts pro­vid­ed food fit for liv­ing peo­ple at their par­ties.”

“We weren’t hun­gry,” said Ron loud­ly as his stom­ach gave a huge rum­ble.

Snape’s nasty smile widened.

“I sug­gest, Head­mas­ter, that Pot­ter is not be­ing en­tire­ly truth­ful,” he said. “It might be a good idea if he were de­prived of cer­tain priv­ileges un­til he is ready to tell us the whole sto­ry. I per­son­al­ly feel he should be tak­en off the Gryffind­or Quid­ditch team un­til he is ready to be hon­est.”

“Re­al­ly, Severus,” said Pro­fes­sor McG­ona­gall sharply, “I see no rea­son to stop the boy play­ing Quid­ditch. This cat wasn’t hit over the head with a broom­stick. There is no ev­idence at all that Pot­ter has done any­thing wrong.”

Dum­ble­dore was giv­ing Har­ry a search­ing look. His twin­kling light-​blue gaze made Har­ry feel as though he were be­ing X-​rayed.

“In­no­cent un­til proven guilty, Severus,” he said firm­ly.

Snape looked fu­ri­ous.

So did Filch.

“My cat has been Pet­ri­fied!” he shrieked, his eyes pop­ping. “I want to see some pun­ish­ment!”

“We will be able to cure her, Ar­gus,” said Dum­ble­dore pa­tient­ly. “Pro­fess­er Sprout re­cent­ly man­aged to pro­cure some Man­drakes. As soon as they have reached their full size, I will have a po­tion made that will re­vive Mrs. Nor­ris.”

“I’ll make it,” Lock­hart but­ted in. “I must have done it a hun­dred times. I could whip up a Man­drake Restora­tive Draught in my sleep —”

“Ex­cuse me,” said Snape ici­ly. “But I be­lieve I am the Po­tions mas­ter at this school.”

There was a very awk­ward pause.

“You may go,” Dum­ble­dore said to Har­ry, Ron, and Hermione.

They went, as quick­ly as they could with­out ac­tu­al­ly run­ning. When they were a floor up from Lock­hart’s of­fice, they turned in­to an emp­ty class­room and closed the door qui­et­ly be­hind them. Har­ry squint­ed at his friends’ dark­ened faces.

“D’you think I should have told them about that voice I heard?”

“No,” said Ron, with­out hes­ita­tion. “Hear­ing voic­es no one else can hear isn’t a good sign, even in the wiz­ard­ing world.”

Some­thing in Ron’s voice made Har­ry ask, “You do be­lieve me, don’t you?”

“’Course I do,” said Ron quick­ly. “But — you must ad­mit it’s weird…”

“I know it’s weird,” said Har­ry. “The whole thing’s weird. What was that writ­ing on the wall about? The Cham­ber Has Been Opened.…What’s that sup­posed to mean?”

“You know, it rings a sort of bell,” said Ron slow­ly. “I think some­one told me a sto­ry about a se­cret cham­ber at Hog­warts once…might’ve been Bill….”

“And what on earth’s a Squib?” said Har­ry.

To his sur­prise, Ron sti­fled a snig­ger.

“Well — it’s not fun­ny re­al­ly — but as it’s Filch,” he said. “A Squib is some­one who was born in­to a wiz­ard­ing fam­ily but hasn’t got any mag­ic pow­ers. Kind of the op­po­site of Mug­gle-​born wiz­ards, but Squibs are quite un­usu­al. If Filch’s try­ing to learn mag­ic from a Kwik­spell course, I reck­on he must be a Squib. It would ex­plain a lot. Like why he hates stu­dents so much.” Ron gave a sat­is­fied smile. “He’s bit­ter.”

A clock chimed some­where.

“Mid­night,” said Har­ry. “We’d bet­ter get to bed be­fore Snape comes along and tries to frame us for some­thing else.”



For a few days, the school could talk of lit­tle else but the at­tack on Mrs. Nor­ris. Filch kept it fresh in ev­ery­one’s minds by pac­ing the spot where she had been at­tacked, as though he thought the at­tack­er might come back. Har­ry had seen him scrub­bing the mes­sage on the wall with Mrs. Skow­er’s All-​Pur­pose Mag­ical Mess Re­mover, but to no ef­fect; the words still gleamed as bright­ly as ev­er on the stone. When Filch wasn’t guard­ing the scene of the crime, he was skulk­ing red-​eyed through the cor­ri­dors, lung­ing out at un­sus­pect­ing stu­dents and try­ing to put them in de­ten­tion for things like “breath­ing loud­ly’ and “look­ing hap­py.”

Gin­ny Weasley seemed very dis­turbed by Mrs. Nor­ris’s fate. Ac­cord­ing to Ron, she was a great cat lover.

“But you haven’t re­al­ly got to know Mrs. Nor­ris,” Ron told her brac­ing­ly. “Hon­est­ly, we’re much bet­ter off with­out her.” Gin­ny’s lip trem­bled. “Stuff like this doesn’t of­ten hap­pen at Hog­warts,” Ron as­sured her. “They’ll catch the ma­ni­ac who did it and have him out of here in no time. I just hope he’s got time to Pet­ri­fy Filch be­fore he’s ex­pelled. I’m on­ly jok­ing —” Ron added hasti­ly as Gin­ny blanched.

The at­tack had al­so had an ef­fect on Hermione. It was quite usu­al for Hermione to spend a lot of time read­ing, but she was now do­ing al­most noth­ing else. Nor could Har­ry and Ron get much re­sponse from her when they asked what she was up to, and not un­til the fol­low­ing Wednes­day did they find out.

Har­ry had been held back in Po­tions, where Snape had made him stay be­hind to scrape tube­worms off the desks. Af­ter a hur­ried lunch, he went up­stairs to meet Ron in the li­brary, and saw Justin Finch-​Fletch­ley, the Huf­flepuff boy from Her­bol­ogy, com­ing to­ward him. Har­ry had just opened his mouth to say hel­lo when Justin caught sight of him, turned abrupt­ly, and sped off in the op­po­site di­rec­tion.

Har­ry found Ron at the back of the li­brary, mea­sur­ing his His­to­ry of Mag­ic home­work. Pro­fes­sor Binns had asked for a three foot long com­po­si­tion on “The Me­dieval As­sem­bly of Eu­ro­pean Wiz­ards.”

“I don’t be­lieve it, I’m still eight inch­es short said Ron fu­ri­ous­ly, let­ting go of his parch­ment, which sprang back in­to a roll. “And Hermione’s done four feet sev­en inch­es and her writ­ing’s tiny.”

“Where is she?” asked Har­ry, grab­bing the tape mea­sure and un­rolling his own home­work.

“Some­where over there,” said Ron, point­ing along the shelves. “Look­ing for an­oth­er book. I think she’s try­ing to read the whole li­brary be­fore Christ­mas.”

Har­ry told Ron about Justin Finch-​Fletch­ley run­ning away from him.

“Dun­no why you care. I thought he was a bit of an id­iot,” said Ron, scrib­bling away, mak­ing his writ­ing as large as pos­si­ble. “All that junk about Lock­hart be­ing so great —”

Hermione emerged from be­tween the book­shelves. She looked ir­ri­ta­ble and at last seemed ready to talk to them.

“All the copies of Hog­warts, A His­to­ry have been tak­en out,” she said, sit­ting down next to Har­ry and Ron. “And there’s a two-​week wait­ing list. I wish I hadn’t left my copy at home, but I couldn’t fit it in my trunk with all the Lock­hart books.”

“Why do you want it?” said Har­ry.

“The same rea­son ev­ery­one else wants it,” said Hermione, “to read up on the leg­end of the Cham­ber of Se­crets.”

“What’s that?” said Har­ry quick­ly.

“That’s just it. I can’t re­mem­ber,” said Hermione, bit­ing her lip. “And I can’t find the sto­ry any­where else —”

“Hermione, let me read your com­po­si­tion,” said Ron des­per­ate­ly, check­ing his watch.

“No, I won’t,” said Hermione, sud­den­ly se­vere. “You’ve had ten days to fin­ish it —”

“I on­ly need an­oth­er two inch­es, come on —”

The bell rang. Ron and Hermione led the way to His­to­ry of Mag­ic, bick­er­ing.

His­to­ry of Mag­ic was the dullest sub­ject on their sched­ule. Pro­fes­sor Binns, who taught it, was their on­ly ghost teach­er, and the most ex­cit­ing thing that ev­er hap­pened in his class­es was his en­ter­ing the room through the black­board. An­cient and shriv­eled, many peo­ple said he hadn’t no­ticed he was dead. He had sim­ply got up to teach one day and left his body be­hind him in an arm­chair in front of the staff room fire; his rou­tine had not var­ied in the slight­est since.

To­day was as bor­ing as ev­er. Pro­fes­sor Binns opened his notes and be­gan to read in a flat drone like an old vac­uum clean­er un­til near­ly ev­ery­one in the class was in a deep stu­por, oc­ca­sion­al­ly com­ing to long enough to copy down a name or date, then falling asleep again. He had been speak­ing for half an hour when some­thing hap­pened that had nev­er hap­pened be­fore. Hermione put up her hand.

Pro­fes­sor Binns, glanc­ing up in the mid­dle of a dead­ly dull lec­ture on the In­ter­na­tion­al War­lock Con­ven­tion of 1289, looked amazed.

“Miss — er —?”

“Granger, Pro­fes­sor. I was won­der­ing if you could tell us any­thing about the Cham­ber of Se­crets,” said Hermione in a clear voice.

Dean Thomas, who had been sit­ting with his mouth hang­ing open, gaz­ing out of the win­dow, jerked out of his trance; Laven­der Brown’s head came up off her arms and Neville Long­bot­tom’s el­bow slipped off his desk.

Pro­fes­sor Binns blinked.

“My sub­ject is His­to­ry of Mag­ic,” he said in his dry, wheezy voice. “I deal with facts, Miss Granger, not myths and leg­ends.” He cleared his throat with a small noise like chalk slip­ping and con­tin­ued, “In Septem­ber of that year, a sub­com­mit­tee of Sar­dini­an sor­cer­ers —”

He stut­tered to a halt. Hermione’s hand was wav­ing in the air again.

“Miss Grant?”

“Please, sir, don’t leg­ends al­ways have a ba­sis in fact?”

Pro­fes­sor Binns was look­ing at her in such amaze­ment, Har­ry was sure no stu­dent had ev­er in­ter­rupt­ed him be­fore, alive or dead.

“Well,” said Pro­fes­sor Binns slow­ly, “yes, one could ar­gue that, I sup­pose.” He peered at Hermione as though he had nev­er seen a stu­dent prop­er­ly be­fore. “How­ev­er, the leg­end of which you speak is such a very sen­sa­tion­al, even lu­di­crous tale —”

But the whole class was now hang­ing on Pro­fes­sor Binns’s ev­ery word. He looked dim­ly at them all, ev­ery face turned to his. Har­ry could tell he was com­plete­ly thrown by such an un­usu­al show of in­ter­est.

“Oh, very well,” he said slow­ly. “Let me see…the Cham­ber of Se­crets…

“You all know, of course, that Hog­warts was found­ed over a thou­sand years ago — the pre­cise date is un­cer­tain — by the four great­est witch­es and wiz­ards of the age. The four school Hous­es are named af­ter them: Go­dric Gryffind­or, Hel­ga Huf­flepuff, Rowe­na Raven­claw, and Salazar Slytherin. They built this cas­tle to­geth­er, far from pry­ing Mug­gle eyes, for it was an age when mag­ic was feared by com­mon peo­ple, and witch­es and wiz­ards suf­fered much per­se­cu­tion.”

He paused, gazed bleari­ly around the room, and con­tin­ued.

“For a few years, the founders worked in har­mo­ny to­geth­er, seek­ing out young­sters who showed signs of mag­ic and bring­ing them to the cas­tle to be ed­ucat­ed. But then dis­agree­ments sprang up be­tween them. A rift be­gan to grow be­tween Slytherin and the oth­ers. Slytherin wished to be more se­lec­tive about the stu­dents ad­mit­ted to Hog­warts. He be­lieved that mag­ical learn­ing should be kept with­in all-​mag­ic fam­ilies. He dis­liked tak­ing stu­dents of Mug­gle parent­age, be­liev­ing them to be un­trust­wor­thy. Af­ter a while, there was a se­ri­ous ar­gu­ment on the sub­ject be­tween Slytherin and Gryffind­or, and Slytherin left the school.”

Pro­fes­sor Binns paused again, purs­ing his lips, look­ing like a wrin­kled old tor­toise.

“Re­li­able his­tor­ical sources tell us this much,” he said. “But these hon­est facts have been ob­scured by the fan­ci­ful leg­end of the Cham­ber of Se­crets. The sto­ry goes that Slytherin had built a hid­den cham­ber in the cas­tle, of which the oth­er founders knew noth­ing.

“Slytherin, ac­cord­ing to the leg­end, sealed the Cham­ber of Se­crets so that none would be able to open it un­til his own true heir ar­rived at the school. The heir alone would be able to un­seal the Cham­ber of Se­crets, un­leash the hor­ror with­in, and use it to purge the school of all who were un­wor­thy to study mag­ic.”

There was si­lence as he fin­ished telling the sto­ry, but it wasn’t the usu­al, sleepy si­lence that filled Pro­fes­sor Binns’s class­es. There was un­ease in the air as ev­ery­one con­tin­ued to watch him, hop­ing for more. Pro­fes­sor Binns looked faint­ly an­noyed.

“The whole thing is ar­rant non­sense, of course,” he said. “Nat­ural­ly, the school has been searched for ev­idence of such a cham­ber, many times, by the most learned witch­es and wiz­ards. It does not ex­ist. A tale told to fright­en the gullible.”

Hermione’s hand was back in the air.

“Sir — what ex­act­ly do you mean by the ‘hor­ror with­in’ the Cham­ber?”

“That is be­lieved to be some sort of mon­ster, which the Heir of Slytherin alone can con­trol,” said Pro­fes­sor Binns in his dry, reedy voice.

The class ex­changed ner­vous looks.

“I tell you, the thing does not ex­ist,” said Pro­fes­sor Binns, shuf­fling his notes. “There is no Cham­ber and no mon­ster.”

“But, sir,” said Sea­mus Finni­gan, “if the Cham­ber can on­ly be opened by Slytherin’s true heir, no one else would be able to find it, would they?”

“Non­sense, O’Fla­her­ty,” said Pro­fes­sor Binns in an ag­gra­vat­ed tone. “If a long suc­ces­sion of Hog­warts head­mas­ters and head­mistress­es haven’t found the thing —”

“But, Pro­fes­sor,” piped up Par­vati Patil, “you’d prob­ably have to use Dark Mag­ic to open it —”

“Just be­cause a wiz­ard doesn’t use Dark Mag­ic doesn’t mean he can’t, Miss Pen­nyfeath­er,” snapped Pro­fes­sor Binns. “I re­peat, if the likes of Dum­ble­dore —”

“But maybe you’ve got to be re­lat­ed to Slytherin, so Dum­ble­dore couldn’t —” be­gan Dean Thomas, but Pro­fes­sor Binns had had enough.

“That will do,” he said sharply. “It is a myth! It does not ex­ist! There is not a shred of ev­idence that Slytherin ev­er built so much as a se­cret broom cup­board! I re­gret telling you such a fool­ish sto­ry! We will re­turn, if you please, to his­to­ry, to sol­id, be­liev­able, ver­ifi­able fact!”

And with­in five min­utes, the class had sunk back in­to its usu­al tor­por.



“I al­ways knew Salazar Slytherin was a twist­ed old loony,” Ron told Har­ry and Hermione as they fought their way through the teem­ing cor­ri­dors at the end of the les­son to drop off their bags be­fore din­ner. “But I nev­er knew he start­ed all this pure-​blood stuff. I wouldn’t be in his house if you paid me. Hon­est­ly, if the Sort­ing Hat had tried to put me in Slytherin, I’d’ve got the train straight back home…”

Hermione nod­ded fer­vent­ly, but Har­ry didn’t say any­thing. His stom­ach had just dropped un­pleas­ant­ly.

Har­ry had nev­er told Ron and Hermione that the Sort­ing Hat had se­ri­ous­ly con­sid­ered putting him in Slytherin. He could re­mem­ber, as though it were yes­ter­day, the small voice that had spo­ken in his ear when he’d placed the hat on his head a year be­fore: You could be great, you know, it’s all here in your head, and Slytherin would help you on the way to great­ness, no doubt about that…

But Har­ry, who had al­ready heard of Slytherin House’s rep­uta­tion for turn­ing out Dark wiz­ards, had thought des­per­ate­ly, Not Slytherin! and the hat had said, Oh, well, if you’re sure…bet­ter be Gryffind­or.…

As they were shunt­ed along in the throng, Col­in Creevy went past.

“Hiya, Har­ry!”

“Hul­lo, Col­in,” said Har­ry au­to­mat­ical­ly.

“Har­ry — Har­ry — a boy in my class has been say­ing you’re —”

But Col­in was so small he couldn’t fight against the tide of peo­ple bear­ing him to­ward the Great Hall; they heard him squeak, “See you, Har­ry!” and he was gone.

“What’s a boy in his class say­ing about you?” Hermione won­dered.

“That I’m Slytherin’s heir, I ex­pect,” said Har­ry, his stom­ach drop­ping an­oth­er inch or so as he sud­den­ly re­mem­bered the way Justin Finch-​Fletch­ley had run away from him at lunchtime.

“Peo­ple here’ll be­lieve any­thing,” said Ron in dis­gust.

The crowd thinned and they were able to climb the next stair­case with­out dif­fi­cul­ty.

“D’you re­al­ly think there’s a Cham­ber of Se­crets?” Ron asked Hermione.

“I don’t know,” she said, frown­ing. “Dum­ble­dore couldn’t cure Mrs. Nor­ris, and that makes me think that what­ev­er at­tacked her might not be — well — hu­man.”

As she spoke, they turned a cor­ner and found them­selves at the end of the very cor­ri­dor where the at­tack had hap­pened. They stopped and looked. The scene was just as it had been that night, ex­cept that there was no stiff cat hang­ing from the torch brack­et, and an emp­ty chair stood against the wall bear­ing the mes­sage “The Cham­ber of Se­crets has been Opened.”

“That’s where Filch has been keep­ing guard,” Ron mut­tered.

They looked at each oth­er. The cor­ri­dor was de­sert­ed.

“Can’t hurt to have a poke around,” said Har­ry, drop­ping his bag and get­ting to his hands and knees so that he could crawl along, search­ing for clues.

“Scorch marks!” he said. “Here — and here —”

“Come and look at this!” said Hermione. “This is fun­ny…”

Har ry got up and crossed to the win­dow next to the mes­sage on the wall. Hermione was point­ing at the top­most pane, where around twen­ty spi­ders were scut­tling, ap­par­ent­ly fight­ing to get through a small crack. A long, sil­very thread was dan­gling like a rope, as though they had all climbed it in their hur­ry to get out­side.

“Have you ev­er seen spi­ders act like that?” said Hermione won­der­ing­ly.

“No,” said Har­ry, “have you, Ron? Ron?”

He looked over his shoul­der. Ron was stand­ing well back and seemed to be fight­ing the im­pulse to run.

“What’s up?” said Har­ry.

“I — don’t — like — spi­ders,” said Ron tense­ly.

“I nev­er knew that,” said Hermione, look­ing at Ron in sur­prise. “You’ve used spi­ders in Po­tions loads of times…”

“I don’t mind them dead,” said Ron, who was care­ful­ly look­ing any­where but at the win­dow. “I just don’t like the way they move….”

Hermione gig­gled.

“It’s not fun­ny,” said Ron, fierce­ly. “If you must know, when I was three, Fred turned my — my ted­dy bear in­to a great big filthy spi­der be­cause I broke his toy broom­stick…You wouldn’t like them ei­ther if you’d been hold­ing your bear and sud­den­ly it had too many legs and…”

He broke off, shud­der­ing. Hermione was ob­vi­ous­ly still try­ing not to laugh. Feel­ing they had bet­ter get off the sub­ject, Har­ry said, “Re­mem­ber all that wa­ter on the floor? Where did that come from? Some­one’s mopped it up.”

“It was about here,” said Ron, re­cov­er­ing him­self to walk a few paces past Filch’s chair and point­ing. “Lev­el with this door.”

He reached for the brass door­knob but sud­den­ly with­drew his hand as though he’d been burned.

“What’s the mat­ter?” said Har­ry.

“Can’t go in there,” said Ron gruffly. “That’s a girls’ toi­let.”

“Oh, Ron, there won’t be any­one in there,” said Hermione stand­ing up and com­ing over. “That’s Moan­ing Myr­tle’s place. Come on, let’s have a look.”

And ig­nor­ing the large OUT of OR­DER sign, she opened the door.

It was the gloomi­est, most de­press­ing bath­room Har­ry had ev­er set foot in. Un­der a large, cracked, and spot­ted mir­ror were a row of chipped sinks. The floor was damp and re­flect­ed the dull light giv­en off by the stubs of a few can­dles, burn­ing low in their hold­ers; the wood­en doors to the stalls were flak­ing and scratched and one of them was dan­gling off its hinges.

Hermione put her fin­gers to her lips and set off to­ward the end stall. When she reached it she said, “Hel­lo, Myr­tle, how are you?”

Har­ry and Ron went to look. Moan­ing Myr­tle was float­ing above the tank of the toi­let, pick­ing a spot on her chin.

“This is a girls’ bath­room,” she said, eye­ing Ron and Har­ry sus­pi­cious­ly. “They’re not girls.”

“No,” Hermione agreed. “I just want­ed to show them how er — nice it is in here.”

She waved vague­ly at the dirty old mir­ror and the damp floor.

“Ask her if she saw any­thing,” Har­ry mouthed at Hermione.

“What are you whis­per­ing?” said Myr­tle, star­ing at him.

“Noth­ing,” said Har­ry quick­ly. “We want­ed to ask —”

“I wish peo­ple would stop talk­ing be­hind my back!” said Myr­tle, in a voice choked with tears. “I do have feel­ings, you know, even if I am dead —”

“Myr­tle, no one wants to up­set you,” said Hermione. “Har­ry on­ly —”

“No one wants to up­set me! That’s a good one!” howled Myr­tle. “My life was noth­ing but mis­ery at this place and now peo­ple come along ru­in­ing my death!”

“We want­ed to ask you if you’ve seen any­thing fun­ny late­ly,” said Hermione quick­ly. “Be­cause a cat was at­tacked right out­side your front door on Hal­loween.”

“Did you see any­one near here that night?” said Har­ry.

“I wasn’t pay­ing at­ten­tion,” said Myr­tle dra­mat­ical­ly. “Peeves up­set me so much I came in here and tried to kill my­self. Then, of course, I re­mem­bered that I’m — that I’m —”

“Al­ready dead,” said Ron help­ful­ly.

Myr­tle gave a trag­ic sob, rose up in the air, turned over, and dived head­first in­to the toi­let, splash­ing wa­ter all over them and van­ish­ing from sight, al­though from the di­rec­tion of her muf­fled sobs, she had come to rest some­where in the U-​bend.

Har­ry and Ron stood with their mouths open, but Hermione shrugged weari­ly and said, “Hon­est­ly, that was al­most cheer­ful for Myr­tle….Come on, let’s go.”

Har­ry had bare­ly closed the door on Myr­tle’s gur­gling sobs when a loud voice made all three of them jump.

“RON!”

Per­cy Weasley had stopped dead at the head of the stairs, pre­fect badge agleam, an ex­pres­sion of com­plete shock on his face.

“That’s a girls’ bath­room!” he gasped. “What were you —?”

“Just hav­ing a look around,” Ron shrugged. “Clues, you know —”

Per­cy swelled in a man­ner that re­mind­ed Har­ry force­ful­ly of Mrs. Weasley.

“Get — away — from — there —” Per­ry said, strid­ing to­ward them and start­ing to bus­tle them along, flap­ping his arms. “Don’t you care what this looks like? Com­ing back here while ev­ery­one’s at din­ner —”

“Why shouldn’t we be here?” said Ron hot­ly, stop­ping short and glar­ing at Per­cy. “Lis­ten, we nev­er laid a fin­ger on that cat!”

“That’s what I told Gin­ny,” said Per­cy fierce­ly, “but she still seems to think you’re go­ing to be ex­pelled, I’ve nev­er seen her so up­set, cry­ing her eyes out, you might think of her, all the first years are thor­ough­ly overex­cit­ed by this busi­ness —”

“You don’t care about Gin­ny,” said Ron, whose ears were now red­den­ing. “You’re just wor­ried I’m go­ing to mess up your chances of be­ing Head Boy —”

“Five points from Gryffind­or!” Per­cy said terse­ly, fin­ger­ing his pre­fect badge. “And I hope it teach­es you a les­son! No more de­tec­tive work, or I’ll write to Mum!”

And he strode off, the back of his neck as red as Ron’s ears.



Har­ry, Ron, and Hermione chose seats as far as pos­si­ble from Per­cy in the com­mon room that night. Ron was still in a very bad tem­per and kept blot­ting his Charms home­work. When he reached ab­sent­ly for his wand to re­move the smudges, it ig­nit­ed the parch­ment. Fum­ing al­most as much as his home­work, Ron slammed The Stan­dard Book of Spells, Grade 2 shut. To Har­ry’s sur­prise, Hermione fol­lowed suit.

“Who can it be, though?” she said in a qui­et voice, as though con­tin­uing a con­ver­sa­tion they had just been hav­ing. “Who’d want to fright­en all the Squibs and Mug­gle-​borns out of Hog­wart’s?”

“Let’s think,” said Ron in mock puz­zle­ment. “Who do we know who thinks Mug­gle-​borns are scum?”

He looked at Hermione. Hermione looked back, un­con­vinced.

“If you’re talk­ing about Mal­foy —”

“Of course I am!” said Ron. “You heard him — ‘You’ll be next, Mud­bloods!’— come on, you’ve on­ly got to look at his foul rat face to know it’s him —”

“Mal­foy, the Heir of Slytherin?” said Hermione skep­ti­cal­ly.

“Look at his fam­ily,” said Har­ry, clos­ing his books, too. “The whole lot of them have been in Slytherin; he’s al­ways boast­ing about it. They could eas­ily be Slytherin’s de­scen­dants. His fa­ther’s def­inite­ly evil enough.”

“They could’ve had the key to the Cham­ber of Se­crets for cen­turies!” said Ron. “Hand­ing it down, fa­ther to son …”

“Well,” said Hermione cau­tious­ly, “I sup­pose it’s pos­si­ble…”

“But how do we prove it?” said Har­ry dark­ly.

“There might be a way,” said Hermione slow­ly, drop­ping her voice still fur­ther with a quick glance across the room at Per­cy. “Of course, it would be dif­fi­cult. And dan­ger­ous, very dan­ger­ous. We’d be break­ing about fifty school rules, I ex­pect —”

“If, in a month or so, you feel like ex­plain­ing, you will let us know, won’t you?” said Ron ir­ri­ta­bly.

“All right,” said Hermione cold­ly. “What we’d need to do is to get in­side the Slytherin com­mon room and ask Mal­foy a few ques­tions with­out him re­al­iz­ing it’s us.”

“But that’s im­pos­si­ble,” Har­ry said as Ron laughed.

“No, it’s not,” said Hermione. “All we’d need would be some Polyjuice Po­tion.”

“What’s that?” said Ron and Har­ry to­geth­er.

“Snape men­tioned it in class a few weeks ago —”

“D’you think we’ve got noth­ing bet­ter to do in Po­tions than lis­ten to Snape?” mut­tered Ron.

“It trans­forms you in­to some­body else. Think about it! We could change in­to three of the Slytherins. No one would know it was us. Mal­foy would prob­ably tell us any­thing. He’s prob­ably boast­ing about it in the Slytherin com­mon room right now, if on­ly we could hear him.”

“This Polyjuice stuff sounds a bit dodgy to me,” said Ron, frown­ing. “What if we were stuck look­ing like three of the Slytherins for­ev­er?”

“It wears off af­ter a while,” said Hermione, wav­ing her hand im­pa­tient­ly. “But get­ting hold of the recipe will be very dif­fi­cult. Snape said it was in a book called Moste Po­tente Po­tions and it’s bound to be in the Re­strict­ed Sec­tion of the li­brary.” There was on­ly one way to get out a book from the Re­strict­ed Sec­tion: You need­ed a signed note of per­mis­sion from a teach­er. “Hard to see why we’d want the book, re­al­ly,” said Ron, “if we weren’t go­ing to try and make one of the po­tions.” “I think,” said Hermione, “that if we made it sound as though we were just in­ter­est­ed in the the­ory, we might stand a chance…

“Oh, come on, no teach­er’s go­ing to fall for that,” said Ron. “They’d have to be re­al­ly thick…”





HP 2 - Harry Potter and The Chamber of Secrets





CHAPTER TEN




THE ROGUE BLUDGER



S ince the dis­as­trous episode of the pix­ies, Pro­fes­sor Lock­hart had not brought live crea­tures to class. In­stead, he read pas­sages from his books to them, and some­times reen­act­ed some of the more dra­mat­ic bits. He usu­al­ly picked Har­ry to help him with these re­con­struc­tions; so far, Har­ry had been forced to play a sim­ple Tran­syl­va­ni­an vil­lager whom Lock­hart had cured of a Bab­bling Curse, a yeti with a head cold, and a vam­pire who had been un­able to eat any­thing ex­cept let­tuce since Lock­hart had dealt with him.

Har­ry was hauled to the front of the class dur­ing their very next De­fense Against the Dark Arts les­son, this time act­ing a were­wolf. If he hadn’t had a very good rea­son for keep­ing Lock­hart in a good mood, he would have re­fused to do it.

“Nice loud howl, Har­ry — ex­act­ly — and then, if you’ll be­lieve it, I pounced — like this — slammed him to the floor — thus with one hand, I man­aged to hold him down — with my oth­er, I put my wand to his throat — I then screwed up my re­main­ing strength and per­formed the im­mense­ly com­plex Ho­mor­phus Charm- he let out a piteous moan — go on, Har­ry — high­er than that — good — the fur van­ished — the fangs shrank — and he turned back in­to a man. Sim­ple, yet ef­fec­tive — and an­oth­er vil­lage will re­mem­ber me for­ev­er as the hero who de­liv­ered them from the month­ly ter­ror of were­wolf at­tacks.”

The bell rang and Lock­hart got to his feet.

“Home­work — com­pose a po­em about my de­feat of the Wag­ga Wag­ga Were­wolf! Signed copies of Mag­ical Me to the au­thor of the best one!”

The class be­gan to leave. Har­ry re­turned to the back of the room, where Ron and Hermione were wait­ing.

“Ready?” Har­ry mut­tered.

“Wait till ev­ery­one’s gone,” said Hermione ner­vous­ly. “All right…”

She ap­proached Lock­hart’s desk, a piece of pa­per clutched tight­ly in her hand, Har­ry and Ron right be­hind her.

“Er — Pro­fes­sor Lock­hart?” Hermione stam­mered. “I want­ed to — to get this book out of the li­brary. Just for back­ground read­ing.” She held out the piece of pa­per, her hand shak­ing slight­ly. “But the thing is, it’s in the Re­strict­ed Sec­tion of the li­brary, so I need a teach­er to sign for it — I’m sure it would help me un­der­stand what you say in Gadding with Ghouls about slow-​act­ing ven­oms.”

“Ah, Gadding with Ghouls!” said Lock­hart, tak­ing the note from Hermione and smil­ing wide­ly at her. “Pos­si­bly my very fa­vorite book. You en­joyed it?”

“Oh, yes,” said Hermione ea­ger­ly. “So clever, the way you trapped that last one with the tea-​strain­er —”

“Well, I’m sure no one will mind me giv­ing the best stu­dent of the year a lit­tle ex­tra help,” said Lock­hart warm­ly, and he pulled out an enor­mous pea­cock quill. “Yes, nice, isn’t it?” he said, mis­read­ing the re­volt­ed look on Ron’s face. “I usu­al­ly save it for book-​sign­ings.”

He scrawled an enor­mous loopy sig­na­ture on the note and hand­ed it back to Hermione.

“So, Har­ry,” said Lock­hart, while Hermione fold­ed the note with fum­bling fin­gers and slipped it in­to her bag. “To­mor­row’s the first Quid­ditch match of the sea­son, I be­lieve? Gryffind­or against Slytherin, is it not? I hear you’re a use­ful play­er. I was a Seek­er, too. I was asked to try for the Na­tion­al Squad, but pre­ferred to ded­icate my life to the erad­ica­tion of the Dark Forces. Still, if ev­er you feel the need for a lit­tle pri­vate train­ing, don’t hes­itate to ask. Al­ways hap­py to pass on my ex­per­tise to less able play­ers…”

Har­ry made an in­dis­tinct noise in his throat and then hur­ried off af­ter Ron and Hermione.

“I don’t be­lieve it,” he said as the three of them ex­am­ined the sig­na­ture on the note. “He didn’t even look at the book we want­ed.”

“That’s be­cause he’s a brain­less git,” said Ron. “But who cares, we’ve got what we need­ed—”

“He is not a brain­less git,” said Hermione shril­ly as they half ran to­ward the li­brary.

“Just be­cause he said you were the best stu­dent of the year —”

They dropped their voic­es as they en­tered the muf­fled still­ness of the li­brary. Madam Pince, the li­brar­ian, was a thin, ir­ri­ta­ble wom­an who looked like an un­der­fed vul­ture.

“Moste Po­tente Po­tions?” she re­peat­ed sus­pi­cious­ly, try­ing to take the note from Hermione; but Hermione wouldn’t let go.

“I was won­der­ing if I could keep it,” she said breath­less­ly.

“Oh, come on,” said Ron, wrench­ing it from her grasp and thrust­ing it at Madam Pince. “We’ll get you an­oth­er au­to­graph. Lock­hart’ll sign any­thing if it stands still long enough.”

Madam Pince held the note up to the light, as though de­ter­mined to de­tect a forgery, but it passed the test. She stalked away be­tween the lofty shelves and re­turned sev­er­al min­utes lat­er car­ry­ing a large and moldy-​look­ing book. Hermione put it care­ful­ly in­to her bag and they left, try­ing not to walk too quick­ly or look too guilty.

Five min­utes lat­er, they were bar­ri­cad­ed in Moan­ing Myr­tle’s out-​of-​or­der bath­room once again. Hermione had over­rid­den Ron’s ob­jec­tions by point­ing out that it was the last place any­one in their right minds would go, so they were guar­an­teed some pri­va­cy. Moan­ing Myr­tle was cry­ing nois­ily in her stall, but they were ig­nor­ing her, and she them.

Hermione opened Moste Po­tente Po­tions care­ful­ly, and the three of them bent over the damp-​spot­ted pages. It was clear from a glance why it be­longed in the Re­strict­ed Sec­tion. Some of the po­tions had ef­fects al­most too grue­some to think about, and there were some very un­pleas­ant il­lus­tra­tions, which in­clud­ed a man who seemed to have been turned in­side out and a witch sprout­ing sev­er­al ex­tra pairs of arms out of her head.

“Here it is,” said Hermione ex­cit­ed­ly as she found the page head­ed The Polyjuice Po­tion. It was dec­orat­ed with draw­ings of peo­ple halfway through trans­form­ing in­to oth­er peo­ple. Har­ry sin­cere­ly hoped the artist had imag­ined the looks of in­tense pain on their faces.

“This is the most com­pli­cat­ed po­tion I’ve ev­er seen,” said Hermione as they scanned the recipe. “Lacewing flies, leech­es, fluxweed, and knot­grass,” she mur­mured, run­ning her fin­ger down the list of in­gre­di­ents. “Well, they’re easy enough, they’re in the stu­dent store-​cup­board, we can help our­selves…Oooh, look, pow­dered horn of a bi­corn — don’t know where we’re go­ing to get that — shred­ded skin of a boom­slang —. that’ll be tricky, too and of course a bit of who­ev­er we want to change in­to.”

“Ex­cuse me?” said Ron sharply. “What d’you mean, a bit of who­ev­er we’re chang­ing in­to? I’m drink­ing noth­ing with Crabbe’s toe­nails in it —”

Hermione con­tin­ued as though she hadn’t heard him.

“We don’t have to wor­ry about that yet, though, be­cause we add those bits last…”

Ron turned, speech­less, to Har­ry, who had an­oth­er wor­ry.

“D’you re­al­ize how much we’re go­ing to have to steal, Hermione? Shred­ded skin of a boom­slang, that’s def­inite­ly not in the stu­dents’ cup­board. What’re we go­ing to do, break in­to Snape’s pri­vate stores? I don’t know if this is a good idea…”

Hermione shut the book with a snap.

“Well, if you two are go­ing to chick­en out, fine,” she said. There were bright pink patch­es on her cheeks and her eyes were brighter than usu­al. “I don’t want to break rules, you know. I think threat­en­ing Mug­gle-​borns is far worse than brew­ing up a dif­fi­cult po­tion. But if you don’t want to find out if it’s Mal­foy, I’ll go straight to Madam Pince now and hand the book back in.’

“I nev­er thought Id see the day when you’d be per­suad­ing us to break rules,” said Ron. “All right, we’ll do it. But not toe­nails, okay?”

“How long will it take to make, any­way?” said Har­ry as Hermione, look­ing hap­pi­er, opened the book again.

“Well, since the fluxweed has got to be picked at the full moon and the lacewings have got to be stewed for twen­ty-​one days…I’d say it’d be ready in about a month, if we can get all the in­gre­di­ents.”

“A month?” said Ron. “Mal­foy could have at­tacked half the Mug­gle-​borns in the school by then!” But Hermione’s eyes nar­rowed dan­ger­ous­ly again, and he added swift­ly, “But it’s the best plan we’ve got, so full steam ahead, I say.”

How­ev­er, while Hermione was check­ing that the coast was clear for them to leave the bath­room, Ron mut­tered to Har­ry, “It’ll be a lot less has­sle if you can just knock Mal­foy off his broom to­mor­row.”



Har­ry woke ear­ly on Sat­ur­day morn­ing and lay for a while think­ing about the com­ing Quid­ditch match. He was ner­vous, main­ly at the thought of what Wood would say if Gryffind­or lost, but al­so at the idea of fac­ing a team mount­ed on the fastest rac­ing brooms gold could buy. He had nev­er want­ed to beat Slytherin so bad­ly. Af­ter half an hour of ly­ing there with his in­sides churn­ing, he got up, dressed, and went down to break­fast ear­ly, where he found the rest of the Gryffind­or team hud­dled at the long, emp­ty ta­ble, all look­ing up­tight and not speak­ing much.

As eleven o’clock ap­proached, the whole school start­ed to make its way down to the Quid­ditch sta­di­um. It was a mug­gy sort of day with a hint of thun­der in the air. Ron and Hermione came hur­ry­ing over to wish Har­ry good luck as he en­tered the lock­er rooms. The team pulled on their scar­let Gryffind­or robes, then sat down to lis­ten to Wood’s usu­al pre-​match pep talk.

“Slytherin has bet­ter brooms than us,” he be­gan. “No point deny­ing it. But we’ve got bet­ter peo­ple on our brooms. We’ve trained hard­er than they have, we’ve been fly­ing in all weath­ers —”(“Too true,” mut­tered George Weasley. “I haven’t been prop­er­ly dry since Au­gust”)“— and we’re go­ing to make them rue the day they let that lit­tle bit of slime, Mal­foy, buy his way on­to their team.”

Chest heav­ing with emo­tion, Wood turned to Har­ry.

“It’ll be down to you, Har­ry, to show them that a Seek­er has to have some­thing more than a rich fa­ther. Get to that Snitch be­fore Mal­foy or die try­ing, Har­ry, be­cause we’ve got to win to­day, we’ve got to.”

“So no pres­sure, Har­ry” said Fred, wink­ing at him.

As they walked out on­to the pitch, a roar of noise greet­ed them; main­ly cheers, be­cause Raven­claw and Huf­flepuff were anx­ious to see Slytherin beat­en, but the Slytherins in the crowd made their boos and hiss­es heard, too. Madam Hooch, the Quid­ditch teach­er, asked Flint and Wood to shake hands, which they did, giv­ing each oth­er threat­en­ing stares and grip­ping rather hard­er than was nec­es­sary.

“On my whis­tle,” said Madam Hooch. “Three…two…one…”

With a roar from the crowd to speed them up­ward, the four­teen play­ers rose to­ward the lead­en sky. Har­ry flew high­er than any of them, squint­ing around for the Snitch.

“All right there, Scar­head?” yelled Mal­foy, shoot­ing un­der­neath him as though to show off the speed of his broom.

Har­ry had no time to re­ply. At that very mo­ment, a heavy black Bludger came pelt­ing to­ward him; he avoid­ed it so nar­row­ly that he felt it ruf­fle his hair as it passed.

“Close one, Har­ry!” said George, streak­ing past him with his club in his hand, ready to knock the Bludger back to­ward a Slytherin. Har­ry saw George give the Bludger a pow­er­ful whack in the di­rec­tion of Adri­an Pucey, but the Bludger changed di­rec­tion in midair and shot straight for Har­ry again.

Har­ry dropped quick­ly to avoid it, and George man­aged to hit it hard to­ward Mal­foy. Once again, the Bludger swerved like a boomerang and shot at Har­ry’s head.

Har­ry put on a burst of speed and zoomed to­ward the oth­er end of the pitch. He could hear the Bludger whistling along be­hind him. What was go­ing on? Bludgers nev­er con­cen­trat­ed on one play­er like this; it was their job to try and un­seat as many peo­ple as pos­si­ble…

Fred Weasley was wait­ing for the Bludger at the oth­er end. Har­ry ducked as Fred swung at the Bludger with all his might; the Bludger was knocked off course.

“Gotcha!” Fred yelled hap­pi­ly, but he was wrong; as though it was mag­net­ical­ly at­tract­ed to Har­ry, the Bludger pelt­ed af­ter him once more and Har­ry was forced to fly off at full speed.

It had start­ed to rain; Har­ry felt heavy drops fall on­to his face, splat­ter­ing on­to his glass­es. He didn’t have a clue what was go­ing on in the rest of the game un­til he heard Lee Jor­dan, who was com­men­tat­ing, say, “Slytherin lead, six­ty points to ze­ro.’

The Slytherins’ su­pe­ri­or brooms were clear­ly do­ing their jobs, and mean­while the mad Bludger was do­ing all it could to knock Har­ry out of the air. Fred and George were now fly­ing so close to him on ei­ther side that Har­ry could see noth­ing at all ex­cept their flail­ing arms and had no chance to look for the Snitch, let alone catch it.

“Some­one’s — tam­pered — with — this — Bludger —” Fred grunt­ed, swing­ing his bat with all his might at it as it launched a new at­tack on Har­ry.

“We need time out,” said George, try­ing to sig­nal to Wood and stop the Bludger break­ing Har­ry’s nose at the same time.

Wood had ob­vi­ous­ly got the mes­sage. Madam Hooch’s whis­tle rang out and Har­ry, Fred, and George dived for the ground, still try­ing to avoid the mad Bludger.

“What’s go­ing on?” said Wood as the Gryffind­or team hud­dled to­geth­er, while Slytherins in the crowd jeered. “We’re be­ing flat­tened. Fred, George, where were you when that Bludger stopped An­geli­na scor­ing?”

“We were twen­ty feet above her, stop­ping the oth­er Bludger from mur­der­ing Har­ry, Oliv­er,” said George an­gri­ly. “Some­one’s fixed it — it won’t leave Har­ry alone. It hasn’t gone for any­one else all game. The Slytherins must have done some­thing to it.”

“But the Bludgers have been locked in Madam Hooch’s of­fice since our last prac­tice, and there was noth­ing wrong with them then…” said Wood, anx­ious­ly. Madam Hooch was walk­ing to­ward them. Over her shoul­der, Har­ry could see the Slytherin team jeer­ing and point­ing in his di­rec­tion.

“Lis­ten,” said Har­ry as she came near­er and near­er, “with you two fly­ing around me all the time the on­ly way I’m go­ing to catch the Snitch is if it flies up my sleeve. Go back to the rest of the team and let me deal with the rogue one.”

“Don’t be thick,” said Fred. “It’ll take your head off.”

Wood was look­ing from Har­ry to the Weasleys.

“Oliv­er, this is in­sane,” said Ali­cia Spin­ner an­gri­ly. “You can’t let Har­ry deal with that thing on his own. Let’s ask for an in­quiry…”

“If we stop now, we’ll have to for­feit the match!” said Har­ry. “And we’re not los­ing to Slytherin just be­cause of a crazy Bludger! Come on, Oliv­er, tell them to leave me alone!”

“This is all your fault,” George said an­gri­ly to Wood. “`Get the Snitch or die try­ing,’ what a stupid thing to tell him —”

Madam Hooch had joined them.

“Ready to re­sume play?” she asked Wood.

Wood looked at the de­ter­mined look on Har­ry’s face.

“All right,” he said. “Fred, George, you heard Har­ry — leave him alone and let him deal with the Bludger on his own.”

The rain was falling more heav­ily now. On Madam Hooch’s whis­tle, Har­ry kicked hard in­to the air and heard the tell­tale whoosh of the Bludger be­hind him. High­er and high­er Har­ry climbed; he looped and swooped, spi­raled, zigzagged, and rolled. Slight­ly dizzy, he nev­er­the­less kept his eyes wide open, rain was speck­ling his glass­es and ran up his nos­trils as he hung up­side down, avoid­ing an­oth­er fierce dive from the Bludger. He could hear laugh­ter from the crowd; he knew he must look very stupid, but the rogue Bludger was heavy and couldn’t change di­rec­tion as quick­ly as Har­ry could; he be­gan a kind of roller-​coast­er ride around the edges of the sta­di­um, squint­ing through the sil­ver sheets of rain to the Gryffind­or goal posts, where Adri­an Pucey was try­ing to get past Wood.

A whistling in Har­ry’s ear told him the Bludger had just missed him again; he turned right over and sped in the op­po­site di­rec­tion.

“Train­ing for the bal­let, Pot­ter?” yelled Mal­foy as Har­ry was forced to do a stupid kind of twirl in midair to dodge the Bludger, and he fled, the Bludger trail­ing a few feet be­hind him; and then, glar­ing back at Mal­foy in ha­tred, he saw it — the Gold­en Snitch. It was hov­er­ing inch­es above Mal­foy’s left ear — and Mal­foy, busy laugh­ing at Har­ry, hadn’t seen it.

For an ag­oniz­ing mo­ment, Har­ry hung in midair, not dar­ing to speed to­ward Mal­foy in case he looked up and saw the Snitch.

WHAM.

He had stayed still a sec­ond too long. The Bludger had hit him at last, smashed in­to his el­bow, and Har­ry felt his arm break. Dim­ly, dazed by the sear­ing pain in his arm, he slid side­ways on his rain-​drenched broom, one knee still crooked over it, his right arm dan­gling use­less at his side — the Bludger came pelt­ing back for a sec­ond at­tack, this time zoom­ing at his face — Har­ry swerved out of the way, one idea firm­ly lodged in his numb brain: get to Mal­foy.

Through a haze of rain and pain he dived for the shim­mer­ing, sneer­ing face be­low him and saw its eyes widen with fear: Mal­foy thought Har­ry was at­tack­ing him.

“What the —” he gasped, ca­reen­ing out of Har­ry’s way.

Har­ry took his re­main­ing hand off his broom and made a wild snatch; he felt his fin­gers close on the cold Snitch but was now on­ly grip­ping the broom with his legs, and there was a yell from the crowd be­low as he head­ed straight for the ground, try­ing hard not to pass out.

With a splat­ter­ing thud he hit the mud and rolled off his broom. His arm was hang­ing at a very strange an­gle; rid­dled with pain, he heard, as though from a dis­tance, a good deal of whistling and shout­ing. He fo­cused on the Snitch clutched in his good hand.

“Aha,” he said vague­ly. “We’ve won.”

And he faint­ed.

He came around, rain falling on his face, still ly­ing on the field, with some­one lean­ing over him. He saw a glit­ter of teeth.

“Oh, no, not you,” he moaned.

“Doesn’t know what he’s say­ing,” said Lock­hart loud­ly to the anx­ious crowd of Gryffind­ors press­ing around them. “Not to wor­ry, Har­ry. I’m about to fix your arm.”

“No!” said Har­ry. “I’ll keep it like this, thanks…”

He tried to sit up, but the pain was ter­ri­ble. He heard a fa­mil­iar click­ing noise near­by.

“I don’t want a pho­to of this, Col­in,” he said loud­ly.

“Lie back, Har­ry,” said Lock­hart sooth­ing­ly. “It’s a sim­ple charm I’ve used count­less times —”

“Why can’t I just go to the hos­pi­tal wing?” said Har­ry through clenched teeth.

“He should re­al­ly, Pro­fes­sor,” said a mud­dy Wood, who couldn’t help grin­ning even though his Seek­er was in­jured. “Great cap­ture, Har­ry, re­al­ly spec­tac­ular, your best yet, I’d say —”

Through the thick­et of legs around him, Har­ry spot­ted Fred and George Weasley, wrestling the rogue Bludger in­to a box. It was still putting up a ter­rif­ic fight.

“Stand back,” said Lock­hart, who was rolling up his jade-​green sleeves.

“No — don’t —” said Har­ry weak­ly, but Lock­hart was twirling his wand and a sec­ond lat­er had di­rect­ed it straight at Har­ry’s arm.

A strange and un­pleas­ant sen­sa­tion start­ed at Har­ry’s shoul­der and spread all the way down to his fin­ger­tips. It felt as though his arm was be­ing de­flat­ed. He didn’t dare look at what was hap­pen­ing. He had shut his eyes, his face turned away from his arm, but his worst fears were re­al­ized as the peo­ple above him gasped and Col­in Creevey be­gan click­ing away mad­ly. His arm didn’t hurt any­more — nor did it feel re­mote­ly like an arm.

“Ah,” said Lock­hart. “Yes. Well, that can some­times hap­pen. But the point is, the bones are no longer bro­ken. That’s the thing to bear in mind. So, Har­ry, just tod­dle up to the hos­pi­tal wing — ah, Mr. Weasley, Miss Granger, would you es­cort him? — and Madam Pom­frey will be able to — er — tidy you up a bit.”

As Har­ry got to his feet, he felt strange­ly lop­sid­ed. Tak­ing a deep breath he looked down at his right side. What he saw near­ly made him pass out again.

Pok­ing out of the end of his robes was what looked like a thick, flesh-​col­ored rub­ber glove. He tried to move his fin­gers. Noth­ing hap­pened.

Lock­hart hadn’t mend­ed Har­ry’s bones. He had re­moved them.

Madam Pom­frey wasn’t at all pleased.

“You should have come straight to me!” she raged, hold­ing up the sad, limp re­main­der of what, half an hour be­fore, had been a work­ing arm. “I can mend bones in a sec­ond — but grow­ing them back —”

“You will be able to, won’t you?” said Har­ry des­per­ate­ly.

“I’ll be able to, cer­tain­ly, but it will be painful,” said Madam Pom­frey grim­ly, throw­ing Har­ry a pair of pa­ja­mas. “You’ll have to stay the night…”

Hermione wait­ed out­side the cur­tain drawn around Har­ry’s bed while Ron helped him in­to his pa­ja­mas. It took a while to stuff the rub­bery, bone­less arm in­to a sleeve.

“How can you stick up for Lock­hart now, Hermione, eh?” Ron called through the cur­tain as he pulled Har­ry’s limp fin­gers through the cuff. “If Har­ry had want­ed debon­ing he would have asked.”

“Any­one can make a mis­take,” said Hermione. “And it doesn’t hurt any­more, does it, Har­ry?”

“No,” said Har­ry, get­ting in­to bed. “But it doesn’t do any­thing else ei­ther.”

As he swung him­self on­to the bed, his arm flapped point­less­ly.

Hermione and Madam Pom­frey came around the cur­tain. Madam Pom­frey was hold­ing a large bot­tle of some­thing la­beled Skele-​Gro.

“You’re in for a rough night,” she said, pour­ing out a steam­ing beaker­ful and hand­ing it to him. “Re­grow­ing bones is a nasty busi­ness.”

So was tak­ing the Skele-​Gro. It burned Har­ry’s mouth and throat as it went down, mak­ing him cough and splut­ter. Still tut-​tut­ting about dan­ger­ous sports and in­ept teach­ers, Madam Pom­frey re­treat­ed, leav­ing Ron and Hermione to help Har­ry gulp down some wa­ter. “We won, though,” said Ron, a grin break­ing across his face. “That was some catch you made. Mal­foy’s face…he looked ready to kill…”

“I want to know how he fixed that Bludger,” said Hermione dark­ly. “We can add that to the list of ques­tions we’ll ask him when we’ve tak­en the Polyjuice Po­tion,” said Har­ry, sink­ing back on­to his pil­lows. “I hope it tastes bet­ter than this stuff…”

“If it’s got bits of Slytherins in it? You’ve got to be jok­ing,” said Ron.

The door of the hos­pi­tal wing burst open at that mo­ment. Filthy and soak­ing wet, the rest of the Gryffind­or team had ar­rived to see Har­ry. “Un­be­liev­able fly­ing, Har­ry,” said George. “I’ve just seen Mar­cus Flint yelling at Mal­foy. Some­thing about hav­ing the Snitch on top of his head and not notic­ing. Mal­foy didn’t seem too hap­py.” They had brought cakes, sweets, and bot­tles of pump­kin juice; they gath­ered around Har­ry’s bed and were just get­ting start­ed on what promised to be a good par­ty when Madam Pom­frey came storm­ing over, shout­ing, “This boy needs rest, he’s got thir­ty-​three bones to re­grow! Out! OUT!” And Har­ry was left alone, with noth­ing to dis­tract him from the stab­bing pains in his limp arm.

Hours and hours lat­er, Har­ry woke quite sud­den­ly in the pitch black­ness and gave a small yelp of pain: His arm now felt full of large splin­ters. For a sec­ond, he thought that was what had wo­ken him. Then, with a thrill of hor­ror, he re­al­ized that some­one was spong­ing his fore­head in the dark.

“Get off!” he said loud­ly, and then, “Dob­by!”

The house-​elf’s gog­gling ten­nis ball eyes were peer­ing at Har­ry through the dark­ness. A sin­gle tear was run­ning down his long, point­ed nose.

“Har­ry Pot­ter came back to school,” he whis­pered mis­er­ably. “Dob­by warned and warned Har­ry Pot­ter. Ah sir, why didn’t you heed Dob­by? Why didn’t Har­ry Pot­ter go back home when he missed the train?”

Har­ry heaved him­self up on his pil­lows and pushed Dob­by’s sponge away.

“What’re you do­ing here?” he said. “And how did you know I missed the train?”

Dob­by’s lip trem­bled and Har­ry was seized by a sud­den sus­pi­cion.

“It was you!” he said slow­ly. “You stopped the bar­ri­er from let­ting us through!”

“In­deed yes, sir,” said Dob­by, nod­ding his head vig­or­ous­ly, ears flap­ping. “Dob­by hid and watched for Har­ry Pot­ter and sealed the gate­way and Dob­by had to iron his hands af­ter­ward” — he showed Har­ry ten long, ban­daged fin­gers — “but Dob­by didn’t care, sir, for he thought Har­ry Pot­ter was safe, and nev­er did Dob­by dream that Har­ry Pot­ter would get to school an­oth­er way!”

He was rock­ing back­ward and for­ward, shak­ing his ug­ly head.

“Dob­by was so shocked when he heard Har­ry Pot­ter was back at Hog­warts, he let his mas­ter’s din­ner burn! Such a flog­ging Dob­by nev­er had, sir…”

Har­ry slumped back on­to his pil­lows.

“You near­ly got Ron and me ex­pelled,” he said fierce­ly. “You’d bet­ter get lost be­fore my bones come back, Dob­by, or I might stran­gle you.”

Dob­by smiled weak­ly.

“Dob­by is used to death threats, sir. Dob­by gets them five times a day at home.”

He blew his nose on a cor­ner of the filthy pil­low­case he wore, look­ing so pa­thet­ic that Har­ry felt his anger ebb away in spite of him­self.

“Why d’you wear that thing, Dob­by?” he asked cu­ri­ous­ly.

“This, sir?” said Dob­by, pluck­ing at the pil­low­case. “‘Tis a mark of the house-​elf’s en­slave­ment, sir. Dob­by can on­ly be freed if his mas­ters present him with clothes, sir. The fam­ily is care­ful not to pass Dob­by even a sock, sir, for then he would be free to leave their house for­ev­er.”

Dob­by mopped his bulging eyes and said sud­den­ly, “Har­ry Pot­ter must go home! Dob­by thought his Bludger would be enough to make —”

“Your Bludger?” said Har­ry, anger ris­ing once more. “What d’you mean, your Bludger? You made that Bludger try and kill me?”

“Not kill you, sir, nev­er kill you!” said Dob­by, shocked. “Dob­by wants to save Har­ry Pot­ter’s life! Bet­ter sent home, grievous­ly in­jured, than re­main here sir! Dob­by on­ly want­ed Har­ry Pot­ter hurt enough to be sent home!”

“Oh, is that all?” said Har­ry an­gri­ly. “I don’t sup­pose you’re go­ing to tell me why you want­ed me sent home in pieces?”

“Ah, if Har­ry Pot­ter on­ly knew!” Dob­by groaned, more tears drip­ping on­to his ragged pil­low­case. “If he knew what he means to us, to the low­ly, the en­slaved, we dregs of the mag­ical world! Dob­by re­mem­bers how it was when He-​Who-​Must-​Not-​Be-​Named was at the height of his pow­ers, sir! We house-​elves were treat­ed like ver­min, sir! Of course, Dob­by is still treat­ed like that, sir,” he ad­mit­ted, dry­ing his face on the pil­low­case. “But most­ly, sir, life has im­proved for my kind since you tri­umphed over He-​Who-​Must-​Not-​Be-​Named. Har­ry Pot­ter sur­vived, and the Dark Lord’s pow­er was bro­ken, and it was a new dawn, sir, and Har­ry Pot­ter shone like a bea­con of hope for those of us who thought the Dark days would nev­er end, sit…And now, at Hog­warts, ter­ri­ble things are to hap­pen, are per­haps hap­pen­ing al­ready, and Dob­by can­not let Har­ry Pot­ter stay here now that his­to­ry is to re­peat it­self, now that the Cham­ber of Se­crets is open once more.”

Dob­by froze, hor­rorstruck, then grabbed Har­ry’s wa­ter jug from his bed­side ta­ble and cracked it over his own head, top­pling out of sight. A sec­ond lat­er, he crawled back on­to the bed, cross-​eyed, mut­ter­ing, “Bad Dob­by, very bad Dob­by…”

“So there is a Cham­ber of Se­crets?” Har­ry whis­pered. “And did you say it’s been opened be­fore? Tell me, Dob­by!”

He seized the elf’s bony wrist as Dob­by’s hand inched to­ward the wa­ter jug. “But I’m not Mug­gle-​born — how can I be in dan­ger from the Cham­ber?”

“Ah, sir, ask no more, ask no more of poor Dob­by,” stam­mered the elf, his eyes huge in the dark. “Dark deeds are planned in this place, but Har­ry Pot­ter must not be here when they hap­pen — go home, Har­ry Pot­ter, go home. Har­ry Pot­ter must not med­dle in this, sir, ‘tis too dan­ger­ous —”

“Who is it, Dob­by?” Har­ry said, keep­ing a firm hold on Dob­by’s wrist to stop him from hit­ting him­self with the wa­ter jug again. “Who’s opened it? Who opened it last time?”

“Dob­by can’t, sir, Dob­by can’t, Dob­by mustn’t tell!” squealed the elf. “Go home, Har­ry Pot­ter, go home!”

“I’m not go­ing any­where!” said Har­ry fierce­ly. “One of my best friends is Mug­gle-​born; she’ll be first in line if the Cham­ber re­al­ly has been opened —”

“Har­ry Pot­ter risks his own life for his friends!” moaned Dob­by in a kind of mis­er­able ec­sta­sy. “So no­ble! So valiant! But he must save him­self, he must, Har­ry Pot­ter must not —”

Dob­by sud­den­ly froze, his bat ears quiv­er­ing. Har­ry heard it, too. There were foot­steps com­ing down the pas­sage­way out­side.

“Dob­by must go!” breathed the elf, ter­ri­fied. There was a loud crack, and Har­ry’s fist was sud­den­ly clenched on thin air. He slumped back in­to bed, his eyes on the dark door­way to the hos­pi­tal wing as the foot­steps drew near­er.

Next mo­ment, Dum­ble­dore was back­ing in­to the dor­mi­to­ry, wear­ing a long wool­ly dress­ing gown and a night­cap. He was car­ry­ing one end of what looked like a stat­ue. Pro­fes­sor McG­ona­gall ap­peared a sec­ond lat­er, car­ry­ing its feet. To­geth­er, they heaved it on­to a bed.

“Get Madam Pom­frey,” whis­pered Dum­ble­dore, and Pro­fes­sor McG­ona­gall hur­ried past the end of Har­ry’s bed out of sight. Har­ry lay quite still, pre­tend­ing to be asleep. He heard ur­gent voic­es, and then Pro­fes­sor McG­ona­gall swept back in­to view, close­ly fol­lowed by Madam Pom­frey, who was pulling a cardi­gan on over her night­dress. He heard a sharp in­take of breath.

“What hap­pened?” Madam Pom­frey whis­pered to Dum­ble­dore, bend­ing over the stat­ue on the bed.

“An­oth­er at­tack,” said Dum­ble­dore. “Min­er­va found him on the stairs.”

“There was a bunch of grapes next to him,” said Pro­fes­sor McG­ona­gall. “We think he was try­ing to sneak up here to vis­it Pot­ter.”

Har­ry’s stom­ach gave a hor­ri­ble lurch. Slow­ly and care­ful­ly, he raised him­self a few inch­es so he could look at the stat­ue on the bed. A ray of moon­light lay across its star­ing face.

It was Col­in Creevey. His eyes were wide and his hands were stuck up in front of him, hold­ing his cam­era.

“Pet­ri­fied?” whis­pered Madam Pom­frey.

“Yes,” said Pro­fes­sor McG­ona­gall. “But I shud­der to think …If Al­bus hadn’t been on the way down­stairs for hot choco­late — who knows what might have —”

The three of them stared down at Col­in. Then Dum­ble­dore leaned for­ward and wrenched the cam­era out of Col­in’s rigid grip.

“You don’t think he man­aged to get a pic­ture of his at­tack­er?” said Pro­fes­sor McG­ona­gall ea­ger­ly.

Dum­ble­dore didn’t an­swer. He opened the back of the cam­era.

“Good gra­cious!” said Madam Pom­frey.

A jet of steam had hissed out of the cam­era. Har­ry, three beds away, caught the acrid smell of burnt plas­tic.

“Melt­ed,” said Madam Pom­frey won­der­ing­ly. “All melt­ed…”

“What does this mean, Al­bus?” Pro­fes­sor McG­ona­gall asked ur­gent­ly.

“It means,” said Dum­ble­dore, “that the Cham­ber of Se­crets is in­deed open again.”

Madam Pom­frey clapped a hand to her mouth. Pro­fes­sor McG­ona­gall stared at Dum­ble­dore.

“But, Al­bus…sure­ly…who?”

“The ques­tion is not who,” said Dum­ble­dore, his eyes on Col­in. “The ques­tion is, how…” And from what Har­ry could see of Pro­fes­sor McG­ona­gall’s shad­owy face, she didn’t un­der­stand this any bet­ter than he did.





HP 2 - Harry Potter and The Chamber of Secrets





CHAPTER ELEVEN




THE DU­EL­ING CLUB



H ar­ry woke up on Sun­day morn­ing to find the dor­mi­to­ry blaz­ing with win­ter sun­light and his arm re­boned but very stiff. He sat up quick­ly and looked over at Col­in’s bed, but it had been blocked from view by the high cur­tains Har­ry had changed be­hind yes­ter­day. See­ing that he was awake, Madam Pom­frey came bustling over with a break­fast tray and then be­gan bend­ing and stretch­ing his arm and fin­gers.

“All in or­der,” she said as he clum­si­ly fed him­self por­ridge left-​hand­ed. “When you’ve fin­ished eat­ing, you may leave.”

Har­ry dressed as quick­ly as he could and hur­ried off to Gryffind­or Tow­er, des­per­ate to tell Ron and Hermione about Col­in and Dob­by, but they weren’t there. Har­ry left to look for them, won­der­ing where they could have got to and feel­ing slight­ly hurt that they weren’t in­ter­est­ed in whether he had his bones back or not.

As Har­ry passed the li­brary, Per­cy Weasley strolled out of it, look­ing in far bet­ter spir­its than last time they’d met.

“Oh, hel­lo, Har­ry,” he said. “Ex­cel­lent fly­ing yes­ter­day, re­al­ly ex­cel­lent. Gryffind­or has just tak­en the lead for the House Cup — you earned fifty points!”

“You haven’t seen Ron or Hermione, have you?” said Har­ry.

“No, I haven’t,” said Per­cy, his smile fad­ing. “I hope Ron’s not in an­oth­er girls’ toi­let …”

Har­ry forced a laugh, watched Per­cy walk out of sight, and then head­ed straight for Moan­ing Myr­tle’s bath­room. He couldn’t see why Ron and Hermione would be in there again, but af­ter mak­ing sure that nei­ther Filch nor any pre­fects were around, he opened the door and heard their voic­es com­ing from a locked stall.

“It’s me,” he said, clos­ing the door be­hind him. There was a clunk, a splash, and a gasp from with­in the stall and he saw Hermione’s eye peer­ing through the key­hole.

`Har­ry!” she said. “You gave us such a fright — come in. How’s your arm?”

“Fine,” said Har­ry, squeez­ing in­to the stall. An old caul­dron was perched on the toi­let, and a crack­ling from un­der the rim told Har­ry they had lit a fire be­neath it. Con­jur­ing up portable, wa­ter­proof fires was a spe­cial­ity of Hermione’s.

“We’d’ve come to meet you, but we de­cid­ed to get start­ed on the Polyjuice Po­tion,” Ron ex­plained as Har­ry, with dif­fi­cul­ty, locked the stall again. “We’ve de­cid­ed this is the safest place to hide it.”

Har­ry start­ed to tell them about Col­in, but Hermione in­ter­rupt­ed.

“We al­ready know — we heard Pro­fes­sor McG­ona­gall telling Pro­fes­sor Flitwick this morn­ing. That’s why we de­cid­ed we’d bet­ter get go­ing —”

“The soon­er we get a con­fes­sion out of Mal­foy, the bet­ter,” snarled Ron. “D’you know what I think? He was in such a foul tem­per af­ter the Quid­ditch match, he took it out on Col­in.”

“There’s some­thing else,” said Har­ry, watch­ing Hermione tear­ing bun­dles of knot­grass and throw­ing them in­to the po­tion. “Dob­by came to vis­it me in the mid­dle of the night.”

Ron and Hermione looked up, amazed. Har­ry told them ev­ery­thing Dob­by had told him — or hadn’t told him. Hermione and Ron lis­tened with their mouths open.

“The Cham­ber of Se­crets has been opened be­fore?” Hermione said.

“This set­tles it,” said Ron in a tri­umphant voice. “Lu­cius Mal­foy must’ve opened the Cham­ber when he was at school here and now he’s told dear old Dra­co how to do it. It’s ob­vi­ous. Wish Dob­by’d told you what kind of mon­ster’s in there, though. I want to know how come no­body’s no­ticed it sneak­ing around the school.”

“Maybe it can make it­self in­vis­ible,” said Hermione, prod­ding leech­es to the bot­tom of the caul­dron. “Or maybe it can dis­guise it­self — pre­tend to be a suit of ar­mor or some­thing — I’ve read about Chameleon Ghouls —”

“You read too much, Hermione,” said Ron, pour­ing dead lacewings on top of the leech­es. He crum­pled up the emp­ty lacewing bag and looked at Har­ry.

“So Dob­by stopped us from get­ting on the train and broke your arm.” He shook his head. “You know what, Har­ry? If he doesn’t stop try­ing to save your life he’s go­ing to kill you.”



The news that Col­in Creevey had been at­tacked and was now ly­ing as though dead in the hos­pi­tal wing had spread through the en­tire school by Mon­day morn­ing. The air was sud­den­ly thick with ru­mor and sus­pi­cion. The first years were now mov­ing around the cas­tle in tight-​knit groups, as though scared they would be at­tacked if they ven­tured forth alone.

Gin­ny Weasley, who sat next to Col­in Creevey in Charms, was dis­traught, but Har­ry felt that Fred and George were go­ing the wrong way about cheer­ing her up. They were tak­ing turns cov­er­ing them­selves with fur or boils and jump­ing out at her from be­hind stat­ues. They on­ly stopped when Per­cy, apoplec­tic with rage, told them he was go­ing to write to Mrs. Weasley and tell her Gin­ny was hav­ing night­mares.

Mean­while, hid­den from the teach­ers, a roar­ing trade in tal­is­mans, amulets, and oth­er pro­tec­tive de­vices was sweep­ing the school. Neville Long­bot­tom bought a large, evil-​smelling green onion, a point­ed pur­ple crys­tal, and a rot­ting newt tail be­fore the oth­er Gryffind­or boys point­ed out that he was in no dan­ger; he was a pure-​blood, and there­fore un­like­ly to be at­tacked.

“They went for Filch first,” Neville said, his round face fear­ful. “And ev­ery­one knows I’m al­most a Squib.”

In the sec­ond week of De­cem­ber Pro­fes­sor McG­ona­gall came around as usu­al, col­lect­ing names of those who would be stay­ing at school for Christ­mas. Har­ry, Ron, and Hermione signed her list; they had heard that Mal­foy was stay­ing, which struck them as very sus­pi­cious. The hol­idays would be the per­fect time to use the Polyjuice Po­tion and try to worm a con­fes­sion out of him.

Un­for­tu­nate­ly, the po­tion was on­ly half fin­ished. They still need­ed the bi­corn horn and the boom­slang skin, and the on­ly place they were go­ing to get them was from Snape’s pri­vate stores. Har­ry pri­vate­ly felt he’d rather face Slytherin’s leg­endary mon­ster than let Snape catch him rob­bing his of­fice.

“What we need,” said Hermione briskly as Thurs­day af­ter­noon’s dou­ble Po­tions les­son loomed near­er, “is a di­ver­sion. Then one of us can sneak in­to Snape’s of­fice and take what we need.” Har­ry and Ron looked at her ner­vous­ly.

“I think I’d bet­ter do the ac­tu­al steal­ing,” Hermione con­tin­ued in a mat­ter-​of-​fact tone. “You two will be ex­pelled if you get in­to any more trou­ble, and I’ve got a clean record. So all you need to do is cause enough may­hem to keep Snape busy for five min­utes or so.”

Har­ry smiled fee­bly. De­lib­er­ate­ly caus­ing may­hem in Snape’s Po­tions class was about as safe as pok­ing a sleep­ing drag­on in the eye.

Po­tions lessons took place in one of the large dun­geons. Thurs­day af­ter­noon’s les­son pro­ceed­ed in the usu­al way. Twen­ty caul­drons stood steam­ing be­tween the wood­en desks, on which stood brass scales and jars of in­gre­di­ents. Snape prowled through the fumes, mak­ing waspish re­marks about the Gryffind­ors’ work while the Slytherins snig­gered ap­pre­cia­tive­ly. Dra­co Mal­foy, who was Snape’s fa­vorite stu­dent, kept flick­ing puffer-​fish eyes at Ron and Har­ry, who knew that if they re­tal­iat­ed they would get de­ten­tion faster than you could say “Un­fair.”

Har­ry’s Swelling So­lu­tion was far too run­ny, but he had his mind on more im­por­tant things. He was wait­ing for Hermione’s sig­nal, and he hard­ly lis­tened as Snape paused to sneer at his wa­tery po­tion. When Snape turned and walked off to bul­ly Neville, Hermione caught Har­ry’s eye and nod­ded.

Har­ry ducked swift­ly down be­hind his caul­dron, pulled one of Fred’s Fil­ibuster fire­works out of his pock­et, and gave it a quick prod with his wand. The fire­work be­gan to fizz and sput­ter. Know­ing he had on­ly sec­onds, Har­ry straight­ened up, took aim, and lobbed it in­to the air; it land­ed right on tar­get in Goyle’s caul­dron.

Goyle’s po­tion ex­plod­ed, show­er­ing the whole class. Peo­ple shrieked as splash­es of the Swelling So­lu­tion hit them. Mal­foy got a face­ful and his nose be­gan to swell like a bal­loon; Goyle blun­dered around, his hands over his eyes, which had ex­pand­ed to the size of a din­ner plate — Snape was try­ing to re­store calm and find out what had hap­pened. Through the con­fu­sion, Har­ry saw Hermione slip qui­et­ly in­to Snape’s of­fice.

“Si­lence! SI­LENCE!” Snape roared. “Any­one who has been splashed, come here for a De­flat­ing Draft — when I find out who did this —”

Har­ry tried not to laugh as he watched Mal­foy hur­ry for­ward, his head droop­ing with the weight of a nose like a small mel­on. As half the class lum­bered up to Snape’s desk, some weight­ed down with arms like clubs, oth­ers un­able to talk through gi­gan­tic puffed-​up lips, Har­ry saw Hermione slide back in­to the dun­geon, the front of her robes bulging.

When ev­ery­one had tak­en a swig of an­ti­dote and the var­ious swellings had sub­sid­ed, Snape swept over to Goyle’s caul­dron and scooped out the twist­ed black re­mains of the fire­work. There was a sud­den hush.

“If I ev­er find out who threw this,” Snape whis­pered, “I shall make sure that per­son is ex­pelled.”

Har­ry ar­ranged his face in­to what he hoped was a puz­zled ex­pres­sion. Snape was look­ing right at him, and the bell that rang ten min­utes lat­er could not have been more wel­come.

“He knew it was me,” Har­ry told Ron and Hermione as they hur­ried back to Moan­ing Myr­tle’s bath­room. “I could tell.”

Hermione threw the new in­gre­di­ents in­to the caul­dron and be­gan to stir fever­ish­ly.

“It’ll be ready in two weeks,” she said hap­pi­ly.

“Snape can’t prove it was you,” said Ron re­as­sur­ing­ly to Har­ry. “What can he do?”

“Know­ing Snape, some­thing foul,” said Har­ry as the po­tion frothed and bub­bled.

A week lat­er, Har­ry, Ron, and Hermione were walk­ing across the en­trance hall when they saw a small knot of peo­ple gath­ered around the no­tice board, read­ing a piece of parch­ment that had just been pinned up. Sea­mus Finni­gan and Dean Thomas beck­oned them over, look­ing ex­cit­ed.

“They’re start­ing a Du­el­ing Club!” said Sea­mus. “First meet­ing tonight! I wouldn’t mind du­el­ing lessons; they might come in handy one of these days…”

“What, you reck­on Slytherin’s mon­ster can du­el?” said Ron, but he, too, read the sign with in­ter­est.

“Could be use­ful,” he said to Har­ry and Hermione as they went in­to din­ner. “Shall we go?”



Har­ry and Hermione were all for it, so at eight o’clock that evening they hur­ried back to the Great Hall. The long din­ing ta­bles had van­ished and a gold­en stage had ap­peared along one wall, lit by thou­sands of can­dles float­ing over­head. The ceil­ing was vel­vety black once more and most of the school eemed to be packed be­neath it, all car­ry­ing their wands and look­ing ex­cit­ed.

“I won­der who’ll be teach­ing us?” said Hermione as they edged in­to the chat­ter­ing crowd. “Some­one told me Flitwick was a du­el­ing cham­pi­on when he was young — maybe it’ll be him.”

“As long as it’s not —” Har­ry be­gan, but he end­ed on a groan: Gilderoy Lock­hart was walk­ing on­to the stage, re­splen­dent in robes of deep plum and ac­com­pa­nied by none oth­er than Snape, wear­ing his usu­al black.

Lock­hart waved an arm for si­lence and called ‘ “Gath­er round, gath­er round! Can ev­ery­one see me? Can you all hear me? Ex­cel­lent!

“Now, Pro­fes­sor Dum­ble­dore has grant­ed me per­mis­sion to start this lit­tle du­el­ing club, to train you all in case you ev­er need to de­fend your­selves as I my­self have done on count­less oc­ca­sions — for full de­tails, see my pub­lished works.

“Let me in­tro­duce my as­sis­tant, Pro­fes­sor Snape,” said Lock­hart, flash­ing a wide smile. “He tells me he knows a tiny lit­tle bit about du­el­ing him­self and has sport­ing­ly agreed to help me with a short demon­stra­tion be­fore we be­gin. Now, I don’t want any of you young­sters to wor­ry — you’ll still have your Po­tions mas­ter when I’m through with him, nev­er fear!”

“Wouldn’t it be good if they fin­ished each oth­er off?” Ron mut­tered in Har­ry’s ear.

Snape’s up­per lip was curl­ing. Har­ry won­dered why Lock­hart was still smil­ing; if Snape had been look­ing at him like that he’d have been run­ning as fast as he could in the op­po­site di­rec­tion.

Lock­hart and Snape turned to face each oth­er and bowed; at least, Lock­hart did, with much twirling of his hands, where­as Snape jerked his head ir­ri­ta­bly. Then they raised their wands like swords in front of them.

“As you see, we are hold­ing our wands in the ac­cept­ed com­bat­ive po­si­tion,” Lock­hart told the silent crowd. “On the count of three, we will cast our first spells. Nei­ther of us will be aim­ing to kill, of course.”

“I wouldn’t bet on that,” Har­ry mur­mured, watch­ing Snape bar­ing his teeth.

“One — two — three —”

Both of them swung their wands above their heads and point­ed them at their op­po­nent; Snape cried: “Ex­pel­liar­mus!” There was a daz­zling flash of scar­let light and Lock­hart was blast­ed off his feet: He flew back­ward off the stage, smashed in­to the wall, and slid down it to sprawl on the floor.

Mal­foy and some of the oth­er Slytherins cheered. Hermione was danc­ing on tip­toes. “Do you think he’s all right?” she squealed through her fin­gers.

“Who cares?” said Har­ry and Ron to­geth­er.

Lock­hart was get­ting un­steadi­ly to his feet. His hat had fall­en off and his wavy hair was stand­ing on end.

“Well, there you have it!” he said, tot­ter­ing back on­to the plat­form. “That was a Dis­arm­ing Charm — as you see, I’ve lost my wand — ah, thank you, Miss Brown — yes, an ex­cel­lent idea to show them that, Pro­fes­sor Snape, but if you don’t mind my say­ing so, it was very ob­vi­ous what you were about to do. If I had want­ed to stop you it would have been on­ly too easy — how­ev­er, I felt it would be in­struc­tive to let them see…”

Snape was look­ing mur­der­ous. Pos­si­bly Lock­hart had no­ticed, be­cause he said, “Enough demon­strat­ing! I’m go­ing to come amongst you now and put you all in­to pairs. Pro­fes­sor Snape, if you’d like to help me —”

They moved through the crowd, match­ing up part­ners. Lock­hart teamed Neville with Justin Finch-​Fletch­ley, but Snape reached Har­ry and Ron first.

“Time to split up the dream team, I think,” he sneered. “Weasley, you can part­ner Finni­gan. Pot­ter —”

Har­ry moved au­to­mat­ical­ly to­ward Hermione.

“I don’t think so,” said Snape, smil­ing cold­ly. “Mr. Mal­foy, come over here. Let’s see what you make of the fa­mous Pot­ter. And you, Miss Granger — you can part­ner Miss Bul­strode.”

Mal­foy strut­ted over, smirk­ing. Be­hind him walked a Slytherin girl who re­mind­ed Har­ry of a pic­ture he’d seen in Hol­idays with Hags. She was large and square and her heavy jaw jut­ted ag­gres­sive­ly. Hermione gave her a weak smile that she did not re­turn.

“Face your part­ners!” called Lock­hart, back on the plat­form. “And bow!”

Hrry and Mal­foy bare­ly in­clined their heads, not tak­ing their eyes off each oth­er.

“Wands at the ready!” shout­ed Lock­hart. “When I count to three, cast your charms to dis­arm your op­po­nents — on­ly to dis­arm them — we don’t want any ac­ci­dents — one … two …three —”

Har­ry swung his wand high, but Mal­foy had al­ready start­ed on “two”: His spell hit Har­ry so hard he felt as though he’d been hit over the head with a saucepan. He stum­bled, but ev­ery­thing still seemed to be work­ing, and wast­ing no more time, Har­ry point­ed his wand straight at Mal­foy and shout­ed, “Ric­tusem­pra!”

A jet of sil­ver light hit Mal­foy in the stom­ach and he dou­bled up, wheez­ing.

“I said dis­arm on­ly!” Lock­hart shout­ed in alarm over the heads of the bat­tling crowd, as Mal­foy sank to his knees; Har­ry had hit him with a Tick­ling Charm, and he could bare­ly move for laugh­ing. Har­ry hung back, with a vague feel­ing it would be un­sport­ing to be­witch Mal­foy while he was on the floor, but this was a mis­take; gasp­ing for breath, Mal­foy point­ed his wand at Har­ry’s knees, choked, “Taran­talle­gra!” and the next sec­ond Har­ry’s legs be­gan to jerk around out of his con­trol in a kind of quick­step.

“Stop! Stop!” screamed Lock­hart, but Snape took charge. “Fi­nite In­can­tatem!” he shout­ed; Har­ry’s feet stopped danc­ing, Mal­foy stopped laugh­ing, and they were able to look up.

A haze of green­ish smoke was hov­er­ing over the scene. Both Neville and Justin were ly­ing on the floor, pant­ing; Ron was hold­ing up an ashen-​faced Sea­mus, apol­ogiz­ing for what­ev­er his bro­ken wand had done; but Hermione and Mil­li­cent Bul­strode were still mov­ing; Mil­li­cent had Hermione in a head­lock and Hermione was whim­per­ing in pain; both their wands lay for­got­ten on the floor. Har­ry leapt for­ward and pulled Mil­li­cent off. It was dif­fi­cult: She was a lot big­ger than he was.

“Dear, dear,” said Lock­hart, skit­ter­ing through the crowd, look­ing at the af­ter­math of the du­els. “Up you go, Macmil­lan….”

“Care­ful there, Miss Fawcett…. Pinch it hard, it’ll stop bleed­ing in a sec­ond,”

“I think I’d bet­ter teach you how to block un­friend­ly spells,” said Lock­hart, stand­ing flus­tered in the midst of the hall. He glanced at Snape, whose black eyes glint­ed, and looked quick­ly away. “Let’s have a vol­un­teer pair — Long­bot­tom and Finch-​Fletch­ley, how about you —”

“A bad idea, Pro­fes­sor Lock­hart,” said Snape, glid­ing over like a large and malev­olent bat. “Long­bot­tom caus­es dev­as­ta­tion with the sim­plest spells. We’ll be send­ing what’s left of Finch-​Fletch­ley up to the hos­pi­tal wing in a match­box.” Neville’s round, pink face went pinker. “How about Mal­foy and Pot­ter?” said Snape with a twist­ed smile.

“Ex­cel­lent idea!” said Lock­hart, ges­tur­ing Har­ry and Mal­foy in­to the mid­dle of the hall as the crowd backed away to give them room.

“Now, Har­ry,” said Lock­hart. “When Dra­co points his wand at you, you do this.”

He raised his own wand, at­tempt­ed a com­pli­cat­ed sort of wig­gling ac­tion, and dropped it. Snape smirked as Lock­hart quick­ly picked it up, say­ing, “Whoops — my wand is a lit­tle overex­cit­ed —”

Snape moved clos­er to Mal­foy, bent down, and whis­pered some­thing in his ear. Mal­foy smirked, too. Har­ry looked up ner­vous­ly at Lock­hart and said, “Pro­fes­sor, could you show me that block­ing thing again?”

“Scared?” mut­tered Mal­foy, so that Lock­hart couldn’t hear him.

“You wish,” said Har­ry out of the cor­ner of his mouth.

Lock­hart cuffed Har­ry mer­ri­ly on the shoul­der. “Just do what I did, Har­ry!”

“What, drop my wand?”

But Lock­hart wasn’t lis­ten­ing.

“Three — two — one — go!” he shout­ed.

Mal­foy raised his wand quick­ly and bel­lowed, “Ser­pen­sor­tia!”

The end of his wand ex­plod­ed. Har­ry watched, aghast, as a long black snake shot out of it, fell heav­ily on­to the floor be­tween them, and raised it­self, ready to strike. There were screams as the crowd backed swift­ly away, clear­ing the floor.

“Don’t move, Pot­ter,” said Snape lazi­ly, clear­ly en­joy­ing the sight of Har­ry stand­ing mo­tion­less, eye to eye with the an­gry snake. “I’ll get rid of it……”

“Al­low me!” shout­ed Lock­hart. He bran­dished his wand at the snake and there was a loud bang; the snake, in­stead of van­ish­ing, flew ten feet in­to the air and fell back to the floor with a loud smack. En­raged, hiss­ing fu­ri­ous­ly, it slith­ered straight to­ward Justin Finch-​Fletch­ley and raised it­self again, fangs ex­posed, poised to strike.

Har­ry wasn’t sure what made him do it. He wasn’t even aware of de­cid­ing to do it. All he knew was that his legs were car­ry­ing him for­ward as though he was on cast­ers and that he had shout­ed stupid­ly at the snake, “Leave him alone!” And mirac­ulous­ly — in­ex­pli­ca­bly — the snake slumped to the floor, docile as a thick, black gar­den hose, its eyes now on Har­ry. Har­ry felt the fear drain out of him. He knew the snake wouldn’t at­tack any­one now, though how he knew it, he couldn’t have ex­plained.

He looked up at Justin, grin­ning, ex­pect­ing to see Justin look­ing re­lieved, or puz­zled, or even grate­ful — but cer­tain­ly not an­gry and scared.

“What do you think you’re play­ing at?” he shout­ed, and be­fore Har­ry could say any­thing, Justin had turned and stormed out of the hall.

Snape stepped for­ward, waved his wand, and the snake van­ished in a small puff of black smoke. Snape, too, was look­ing at Har­ry in an un­ex­pect­ed way: It was a shrewd and cal­cu­lat­ing look, and Har­ry didn’t like it. He was al­so dim­ly aware of an omi­nous mut­ter­ing all around the walls. Then he felt a tug­ging on the back of his robes.

“Come on,” said Ron’s voice in his ear. “Move — come on —”

Ron steered him out of the hall, Hermione hur­ry­ing along­side them. As they went through the doors, the peo­ple on ei­ther side drew away as though they were fright­ened of catch­ing some­thing. Har­ry didn’t have a clue what was go­ing on, and nei­ther Ron nor Hermione ex­plained any­thing un­til they had dragged him all the way up to the emp­ty Gryffind­or com­mon room.

Then Ron pushed Har­ry in­to an arm­chair and said, “You’re a Parsel­mouth. Why didn’t you tell us?”

“I’m a what?” said Har­ry.

`A Parsel­mouth!” said Ron. “You can talk to snakes!”

“I know,” said Har­ry. “I mean, that’s on­ly the sec­ond time I’ve ev­er done it. I ac­ci­den­tal­ly set a boa con­stric­tor on my cousin Dud­ley at the zoo once — long sto­ry — but it was telling me it had nev­er seen Brazil and I sort of set it free with­out mean­ing to that was be­fore I knew I was a wiz­ard —”

“A boa con­stric­tor told you it had nev­er seen Brazil?” Ron re­peat­ed faint­ly.

“So?” said Har­ry. “I bet loads of peo­ple here can do it.”

“Oh, no they can’t,” said Ron. “It’s not a very com­mon gift. Har­ry, this is bad.”

“What’s bad?” said Har­ry, start­ing to feel quite an­gry. “What’s wrong with ev­ery­one? Lis­ten, if I hadn’t told that snake not to at­tack Justin —”

“Oh, that’s what you said to it?”

“What d’you mean? You were there — you heard me —”

“I heard you speak­ing Parsel­tongue,” said Ron. “Snake lan­guage. You could have been say­ing any­thing — no won­der Justin pan­icked, you sound­ed like you were egging the snake on or some­thing — it was creepy, you know —”

Har­ry gaped at him.

“I spoke a dif­fer­ent lan­guage? But — I didn’t re­al­ize — how can I speak a lan­guage with­out know­ing I can speak it?”

Ron shook his head. Both he and Hermione were look­ing as though some­one had died. Har­ry couldn’t see what was so ter­ri­ble.

“D’you want to tell me what’s wrong with stop­ping a mas­sive snake bit­ing off Justin’s head?” he said. “What does it mat­ter how I did it as long as Justin doesn’t have to join the Head­less Hunt?”

“It mat­ters,” said Hermione, speak­ing at last in a hushed voice, “be­cause be­ing able to talk to snakes was what Salazar Slytherin was fa­mous for. That’s why the sym­bol of Slytherin House is a ser­pent.”

Har­ry’s mouth fell open.

“Ex­act­ly,” said Ron. “And now the whole school’s go­ing to think you’re his great-​great-​great-​great-​grand­son or some­thing —”

“But I’m not,” said Har­ry, with a pan­ic he couldn’t quite ex­plain.

“You’ll find that hard to prove,” said Hermione. “He lived about a thou­sand years ago; for all we know, you could be.”

Har­ry lay awake for hours that night. Through a gap in the cur­tains around his four-​poster he watched snow start­ing to drift past the tow­er win­dow and won­dered…

Could he be a de­scen­dant of Salazar Slith­er­ing? He didn’t know any­thing about his fa­ther’s fam­ily, af­ter all. The Durs­leys had al­ways for­bid­den ques­tions about his wiz­ard­ing rel­atives.

Qui­et­ly, Har­ry tried to say some­thing in Parsel­tongue. The words wouldn’t come. It seemed he had to be face-​to-​face with a snake to do it.

But I’m in Gryffind­or, Har­ry thought. The Sort­ing Hat wouldn’t have put me in here if I had Slytherin blood…

Ah, said a nasty lit­tle voice in his brain, but the Sort­ing Hat want­ed to put you in Slytherin, don’t you re­mem­ber?

Har­ry turned over. He’d see Justin the next day in Her­bol­ogy and he’d ex­plain that he’d been call­ing the snake off, not egging it on, which (he thought an­gri­ly, pum­mel­ing his pil­low) any fool should have re­al­ized.

By next morn­ing, how­ev­er, the snow that had be­gun in the night had turned in­to a bliz­zard so thick that the last Her­bol­ogy les­son of the term was can­celed: Pro­fes­sor Sprout want­ed to fit socks and scarves on the Man­drakes, a tricky op­er­ation she would en­trust to no one else, now that it was so im­por­tant for the Man­drakes to grow quick­ly and re­vive Mrs. Nor­ris and Col­in Creevey.

Har­ry fret­ted about this next to the fire in the Gryffind­or com­mon room, while Ron and Hermione used their time off to play a game of wiz­ard chess.

“For heav­en’s sake, Har­ry,” said Hermione, ex­as­per­at­ed, as one of Ron’s bish­ops wres­tled her knight off his horse and dragged him off the board. “Go and find Justin if it’s so im­por­tant to you.”

So Har­ry got up and left through the por­trait hole, won­der­ing where Justin might be.

The cas­tle was dark­er than it usu­al­ly was in day­time be­cause of the thick, swirling gray snow at ev­ery win­dow. Shiv­er­ing, Har­ry walked past class­rooms where lessons were tak­ing place, catch­ing snatch­es of what was hap­pen­ing with­in. Pro­fes­sor McG­ona­gall was shout­ing at some­one who, by the sound of it, had turned his friend in­to a bad­ger. Re­sist­ing the urge to take a look, Har­ry walked on by, think­ing that Justin might be us­ing his free time to catch up on some work, and de­cid­ing to check the li­brary first.

A group of the Hu­fliepuffs who should have been in Her­bol­ogy were in­deed sit­ting at the back of the li­brary, but they didn’t seem to be work­ing. Be­tween the long lines of high book­shelves, Har­ry could see that their heads were close to­geth­er and they were hav­ing what looked like an ab­sorb­ing con­ver­sa­tion. He couldn’t see whether Justin was among them. He was walk­ing to­ward them when some­thing of what they were say­ing met his ears, and he paused to lis­ten, hid­den in the In­vis­ibil­ity sec­tion.

“So any­way,” a stout boy was say­ing, “I told Justin to hide up in our dor­mi­to­ry. I mean to say, if Pot­ter’s marked him down as his next vic­tim, it’s best if he keeps a low pro­file for a while. Of course, Justin’s been wait­ing for some­thing like this to hap­pen ev­er since he let slip to Pot­ter he was Mug­gle-​born. Justin ac­tu­al­ly told him he’d been down for Eton. That’s not the kind of thing you bandy about with Slytherin’s heir on the loose, is it?”

“You def­inite­ly think it is Pot­ter, then, Ernie?” said a girl with blonde pig­tails anx­ious­ly.

“Han­nah,” said the stout boy solemn­ly, “he’s a Parsel­mouth. Ev­ery­one knows that’s the mark of a Dark wiz­ard. Have you ev­er heard of a de­cent one who could talk to snakes? They called Slytherin him­self Ser­pent-​tongue.”

There was some heavy mur­mur­ing at this, and Ernie went on, “Re­mem­ber what was writ­ten on the wall? En­emies of the Heir, Be­ware. Pot­ter had some sort of run-​in with Filch. Next thing we know, Flich’s cat’s at­tacked. That first year, Creevey, was an­noy­ing Pot­ter at the Quid­ditch match, tak­ing pic­tures of him while he was ly­ing in the mud. Next thing we know — Creevey’s been at­tacked.”

“He al­ways seems so nice, though,” said Han­nah un­cer­tain­ly, “and, well, he’s the one who made You-​Know-​Who dis­ap­pear. He can’t be all bad, can he?”

Ernie low­ered his voice mys­te­ri­ous­ly, the Huf­flepuffs bent clos­er, and Har­ry edged near­er so that he could catch Ernie’s words.

“No one knows how he sur­vived that at­tack by You-​Know-​Who. I mean to say, he was on­ly a ba­by when it hap­pened. He should have been blast­ed in­to smithereens. On­ly a re­al­ly pow­er­ful Dark wiz­ard could have sur­vived a curse like that.” He dropped his voice un­til it was bare­ly more than a whis­per, and said, “That’s prob­ably why You- Know-​Who want­ed to kill him in the first place. Didn’t want an­oth­er Dark Lord com­pet­ing with him. I won­der what oth­er pow­ers Pot­ter’s been hid­ing?”

Har­ry couldn’t take any­more. Clear­ing his throat loud­ly, he stepped out from be­hind the book­shelves. If he hadn’t been feel­ing so an­gry, he would have found the sight that greet­ed him fun­ny: Ev­ery one of the Huf­flepuffs looked as though they had been Pet­ri­fied by the sight of him, and the col­or was drain­ing out of Ernie’s face.

“Hel­lo,” said Har­ry. “I’m look­ing for Justin Finch-​Fletch­ley.”

The Huf­flepuffs’ worst fears had clear­ly been con­firmed. They all looked fear­ful­ly at Ernie.

“What do you want with him?” said Ernie in a qua­ver­ing voice.

“I want­ed to tell him what re­al­ly hap­pened with that snake at the Du­el­ing Club,” said Har­ry.

Ernie bit his white lips and then, tak­ing a deep breath, said, “We were all there. We saw what hap­pened.”

“Then you no­ticed that af­ter I spoke to it, the snake backed off?” said Har­ry.

“All I saw,” said Ernie stub­born­ly, though he was trem­bling as he spoke, “was you speak­ing Parsel­tongue and chas­ing the snake to­ward Justin.”

“I didn’t chase it at him!” Har­ry said, his voice shak­ing with anger. “It didn’t even touch him!”

“It was a very near miss,” said Ernie. “And in case you’re get­ting ideas,” he added hasti­ly, “I might tell you that you can trace my fam­ily back through nine gen­er­ations of witch­es and war­locks and my blood’s as pure as any­one’s, so —”

“- I don’t care what sort of blood you’ve got!” said Har­ry fierce­ly. “Why would I want to at­tack Mug­gle-​borns?”

“I’ve heard you hate those Mug­gles you live with,” said Ernie swift­ly.

“It’s not pos­si­ble to live with the Durs­leys and not hate them,” said Har­ry. “I’d like to see you try it.”

He turned on his heel and stormed out of the li­brary, earn­ing him­self a re­prov­ing glare from Madam Pince, who was pol­ish­ing the gild­ed cov­er of a large spell­book.

Har­ry blun­dered up the cor­ri­dor, bare­ly notic­ing where he was go­ing, he was in such a fury. The re­sult was that he walked in­to some­thing very large and sol­id, which knocked him back­ward on­to the floor.

“Oh, hel­lo, Ha­grid,” Har­ry said, look­ing up.

Ha­grid’s face was en­tire­ly hid­den by a wool­ly, snow-​cov­ered bal­acla­va, but it couldn’t pos­si­bly be any­one else, as he filled most of the cor­ri­dor in his mole­skin over­coat. A dead roost­er was hang­ing from one of his mas­sive, gloved hands.

“All righ’, Har­ry?” he said, pulling up the bal­acla­va so he could speak. “Why aren’t yeh in class?”

“Can­celed,” said Har­ry, get­ting up. “What’re you do­ing in here?”

Ha­grid held up the limp roost­er.

“Sec­ond one killed this term,” he ex­plained. “It’s ei­ther fox­es or a Blood-​Suckin Bug­bear, an’ I need the Head­mas­ter’s per­mis­sion ter put a charm around the hen coop.”

He peered more close­ly at Har­ry from un­der his thick, snowflecked eye­brows.

“Yeh sure yeh’re all righ’? Yeh look all hot an’ both­ered —”

Har­ry couldn’t bring him­self to re­peat what Ernie and the rest of the Huf­flepuffs had been say­ing about him.

“It’s noth­ing,” he said. “Id bet­ter get go­ing, Ha­grid, it’s Trans­fig­ura­tion next and I’ve got to pick up my books.”

He walked off, his mind still full of what Ernie had said about him.

“Justin’s been wait­ing for some­thing like this to hap­pen ev­er since he let slip to Pot­ter he was Mug­gle-​born…”

Har­ry stamped up the stairs and turned along an­oth­er cor­ri­dor, which was par­tic­ular­ly dark; the torch­es had been ex­tin­guished by a strong, icy draft that was blow­ing through a loose win­dow­pane. He was halfway down the pas­sage when he tripped head­long over some­thing ly­ing on the floor.

He turned to squint at what he’d fall­en over and felt as though his stom­ach had dis­solved.

Justin Finch-​Fletch­ley was ly­ing on the floor, rigid and cold, a look of shock frozen on his face, his eyes star­ing blankly at the ceil­ing. And that wasn’t all. Next to him was an­oth­er fig­ure, the strangest sight Har­ry had ev­er seen.

It was Near­ly Head­less Nick, no longer pearly-​white and trans­par­ent, but black and smoky, float­ing im­mo­bile and hor­izon­tal, six inch­es off the floor. His head was half off and his face wore an ex­pres­sion of shock iden­ti­cal to Justin’s.

Har­ry got to his feet, his breath­ing fast and shal­low, his heart do­ing a kind of drum­roll against his ribs. He looked­wild­ly up and down the de­sert­ed cor­ri­dor and saw a line of spi­ders scut­tling as fast as they could away from the bod­ies. The on­ly sounds were the muf­fled voic­es of teach­ers from the class­es on ei­ther side.

He could run, and no one would ev­er know he had been there. But he couldn’t just leave them ly­ing here…He had to get help…Would any­one be­lieve he hadn’t had any­thing to do with this?

As he stood there, pan­ick­ing, a door right next to him opened with a bang. Peeves the Poltergeist came shoot­ing out.

“Why, it’s pot­ty wee Pot­ter!” cack­led Peeves, knock­ing Har­ry’s glass­es askew as he bounced past him. “What’s Pot­ter up to? Why’s Pot­ter lurk­ing —”

Peeves stopped, halfway through a midair som­er­sault. Up­side down, he spot­ted Justin and Near­ly Head­less Nick. He flipped the right way up, filled his lungs and, be­fore Har­ry could stop him, screamed, “AT­TACK! AT­TACK! AN­OTH­ER AT­TACK! NO MOR­TAL OR GHOST IS SAFE! RUN FOR YOUR LIVES! AT­TAAAACK!”

Crash — crash — crash — door af­ter door flew open along the cor­ri­dor and peo­ple flood­ed out. For sev­er­al long min­utes, there was a scene of such con­fu­sion that Justin was in dan­ger of be­ing squashed and peo­ple kept stand­ing in Near­ly Head­less Nick. Har­ry found him­self pinned against the wall as the teach­ers shout­ed for qui­et. Pro­fes­sor McG­ona­gall came run­ning, fol­lowed by her own class, one of whom still had black-​and-​white-​striped hair. She used her wand to set off a loud bang, which re­stored si­lence, and or­dered ev­ery­one back in­to their class­es. No soon­er had the scene cleared some­what than Ernie the Huf­flepuff ar­rived, pant­ing, on the scene.

“Caught in the act!” Ernie yelled, his face stark white, point­ing his fin­ger dra­mat­ical­ly at Har­ry.

“That will do, Macmil­lan!” said Pro­fes­sor McG­ona­gall sharply.

Peeves was bob­bing over­head, now grin­ning wicked­ly, sur­vey­ing the scene; Peeves al­ways loved chaos. As the teach­ers bent over Justin and Near­ly Head­less Nick, ex­am­in­ing them, Peeves broke in­to song:

“Oh, Pot­ter, you rot­ter, oh, what have you done, You’re killing off’ stu­dents, you think it’s good fun —”

“That’s enough Peeves!” barked Pro­fes­sor McG­ona­gall, and Peeves zoomed away back­ward, with his tongue out at Har­ry.

Justin was car­ried up to the hos­pi­tal wing by Pro­fes­sor Flitwick and Pro­fes­sor Sin­is­tra of the As­tron­omy de­part­ment, but no­body seemed to know what to do for Near­ly Head­less Nick. In the end, Pro­fes­sor McG­ona­gall con­jured a large fan out of thin air, which she gave to Ernie with in­struc­tions to waft Near­ly Head­less Nick up the stairs. This Ernie did, fan­ning Nick along like a silent black hov­er­craft. This left Har­ry and Pro­fes­sor McG­ona­gall alone to­geth­er.

“This way, Pot­ter,” she said.

“Pro­fes­sor,” said Har­ry at once, “I swear I didn’t —”

“This is out of my hands, Pot­ter,” said Pro­fes­sor McG­ona­gall curt­ly.

They marched in si­lence around a cor­ner and she stopped be­fore a large and ex­treme­ly ug­ly stone gar­goyle.

“Lemon drop!” she said. This was ev­ident­ly a pass­word, be­cause the gar­goyle sprang sud­den­ly to life and hopped aside as the wall be­hind him split in two. Even full of dread for what was com­ing, Har­ry couldn’t fail to be amazed. Be­hind the wall was a spi­ral stair­case that was mov­ing smooth­ly up­ward, like an es­ca­la­tor. As he and Pro­fes­sor McG­ona­gall stepped on­to it, Har­ry heard the wall thud closed be­hind them. They rose up­ward in cir­cles, high­er and high­er, un­til at last, slight­ly dizzy, Har­ry saw a gleam­ing oak door ahead, with a brass knock­er in the shape of a grif­fin.

He knew now where he was be­ing tak­en. This must be where Dum­ble­dore lived.





HP 2 - Harry Potter and The Chamber of Secrets





CHAPTER TWELVE




THE POLYJUICE PO­TION



T hey stepped off the stone stair­case at the top, and Pro­fes­sor McG­ona­gall rapped on the door. It opened silent­ly and they en­tered. Pro­fes­sor McG­ona­gall told Har­ry to wait and left him there, alone.

Har­ry looked around. One thing was cer­tain: of all the teach­ers’ of­fices Har­ry had vis­it­ed so far this year, Dum­ble­dore’s was by far the most in­ter­est­ing. If he hadn’t been scared out of his wits that he was about to be thrown out of school, he would have been very pleased to have a chance to look around it.

It was a large and beau­ti­ful cir­cu­lar room, full of fun­ny lit­tle nois­es. A num­ber of cu­ri­ous sil­ver in­stru­ments stood on spin­dle legged ta­bles, whirring and emit­ting lit­tle puffs of smoke. The walls were cov­ered with por­traits of old head­mas­ters and head­mistress­es, all of whom were snooz­ing gen­tly in their frames. There was al­so an enor­mous, claw-​foot­ed desk, and, sit­ting on a shelf be­hind it, a shab­by, tat­tered wiz­ard’s hat — the Sort­ing Hat.

Har­ry hes­itat­ed. He cast a wary eye around the sleep­ing witch­es and wiz­ards on the walls. Sure­ly it couldn’t hurt if he took the hat down and tried it on again? Just to see…just to make sure it had put him in the right House.

He walked qui­et­ly around the desk, lift­ed the hat from its shelf, and low­ered it slow­ly on­to his head. It was much too large and slipped down over his eyes, just as it had done the last time he’d put it on. Har­ry stared at the black in­side of the hat, wait­ing. Then a small voice said in his ear, “Bee in your bon­net, Har­ry Pot­ter?”

“Er, yes,” Har­ry mut­tered. “Er — sor­ry to both­er you — I want­ed to ask —”

“You’ve been won­der­ing whether I put you in the right House,” said the hat smart­ly. “Yes… you were par­tic­ular­ly dif­fi­cult to place. But I stand by what I said be­fore —” Har­ry’s heart leapt — “you would have done well in Slytherin —”

Har­ry’s stom­ach plum­met­ed. He grabbed the point of the hat and pulled it off. It hung limply in his hand, grub­by and fad­ed. Har­ry pushed it back on­to its shelf, feel­ing sick.

“You’re wrong,” he said aloud to the still and silent hat. It didn’t move. Har­ry backed away, watch­ing it. Then a strange, gag­ging noise be­hind him made him wheel around.

He wasn’t alone af­ter all. Stand­ing on a gold­en perch be­hind the door was a de­crepit-​look­ing bird that re­sem­bled a half-​plucked turkey. Har­ry stared at it and the bird looked bale­ful­ly back, mak­ing its gag­ging noise again. Har­ry thought it looked very ill. Its eyes were dull and, even as Har­ry watched, a cou­ple more feath­ers fell out of its tail.

Har­ry was just think­ing that all he need­ed was for Dum­ble­dore’s pet bird to die while he was alone in the of­fice with it, when the bird burst in­to flames.

Har­ry yelled in shock and backed away in­to the desk. He looked fever­ish­ly around in case there was a glass of wa­ter some­where but couldn’t see one; the bird, mean­while, had be­come a fire­ball; it gave one loud shriek and next sec­ond there was noth­ing but a smoul­der­ing pile of ash on the floor.

The of­fice door opened. Dum­ble­dore came in, look­ing very somber.

“Pro­fes­sor,” Har­ry gasped. “Your bird — I couldn’t do any­thing — he just caught fire —”

To Har­ry’s as­ton­ish­ment, Dum­ble­dore smiled.

“About time, too,” he said. “He’s been look­ing dread­ful for days; I’ve been telling him to get a move on.”

He chuck­led at the stunned look on Har­ry’s face.

“Fawkes is a phoenix, Har­ry. Phoenix­es burst in­to flame when it is time for them to die and are re­born from the ash­es. Watch him…”

Har­ry looked down in time to see a tiny, wrin­kled, new­born bird poke its head out of the ash­es. It was quite as ug­ly as the old one.

“It’s a shame you had to see him on a Burn­ing Day,” said Dum­ble­dore, seat­ing him­self be­hind his desk. “He’s re­al­ly very hand­some most of the time, won­der­ful red and gold plumage. Fas­ci­nat­ing crea­tures, phoenix­es. They can car­ry im­mense­ly heavy loads, their tears have heal­ing pow­ers, and they make high­ly faith­ful pets.”

In the shock of Fawkes catch­ing fire, Har­ry had for­got­ten what he was there for, but it all came back to him as Dum­ble­dore set­tled him­self in the high chair be­hind the desk and fixed Har­ry with his pen­etrat­ing, light-​blue stare.

Be­fore Dum­ble­dore could speak an­oth­er word, how­ev­er, the door of the of­fice flew open with an almighty bang and Ha­grid burst in, a wild look in his eyes, his bal­acla­va perched on top of his shag­gy black head and the dead roost­er still swing­ing from his hand.

“It wasn’ Har­ry, Pro­fes­sor Dum­ble­dore!” said Ha­grid ur­gent­ly. “I was talkin’ ter him sec­onds be­fore that kid was found, he nev­er had time, sir —”

Dum­ble­dore tried to say some­thing, but Ha­grid went rant­ing on, wav­ing the roost­er around in his ag­ita­tion, send­ing feath­ers ev­ery­where.

“ it can’t’ve bin him, I’ll swear it in front o’ the Min­istry o’ Mag­ic if I have to.”

“Ha­grid, I —”

“— yeh’ve got the wrong boy, sir, I know Har­ry nev­er —”

“Ha­grid!” said Dum­ble­dore loud­ly. “I do not think that Har­ry at­tacked those peo­ple.”

“Oh,” said Ha­grid, the roost­er falling limply at his side. “Right. I’ll wait out­side then, Head­mas­ter.”

And he stomped out look­ing em­bar­rassed.

“You don’t think it was me, Pro­fes­sor?” Har­ry re­peat­ed hope­ful­ly as Dum­ble­dore brushed roost­er feath­ers off his desk.

“No, Har­ry, I don’t,” said Dum­ble­dore, though his face was somber again. “But I still want to talk to you.”

Har­ry wait­ed ner­vous­ly while Dum­ble­dore con­sid­ered him, the tips of his long fin­gers to­geth­er.

“I must ask you, Har­ry, whether there is any­thing you’d like to tell me,” he said gen­tly. “Any­thing at all.”

Har­ry didn’t know what to say. He thought of Mal­foy shout­ing, “You’ll be next, Mud­bloods!” and of the Polyjuice Po­tion sim­mer­ing away in Moan­ing Myr­tle’s bath­room. Then he thought of the dis­em­bod­ied voice he had heard twice and re­mem­bered what Ron had said: “Hear­ing voic­es no one else can hear isn’t a good sign, even in the wiz­ard­ing world.” He thought, too, about what ev­ery­one was say­ing about him, and his grow­ing dread that he was some­how con­nect­ed with Salazar Slytherin….

“No,” said Har­ry. “There isn’t any­thing, Pro­fes­sor…”



The dou­ble at­tack on Justin and Near­ly Head­less Nick turned what had hith­er­to been ner­vous­ness in­to re­al pan­ic. Cu­ri­ous­ly, it was Near­ly Head­less Nick’s fate that seemed to wor­ry peo­ple most. What could pos­si­bly do that to a ghost? peo­ple asked each oth­er; what ter­ri­ble pow­er could harm some­one who was al­ready dead? There was al­most a stam­pede to book seats on the Hog­warts Ex­press so that stu­dents could go home for Christ­mas.

“At this rate, we’ll be the on­ly ones left,” Ron told Har­ry and Hermione. “Us, Mal­foy, Crabbe, and Goyle. What a jol­ly hol­iday it’s go­ing to be.”

Crabbe and Goyle, who al­ways did what­ev­er Mal­foy did, had signed up to stay over the hol­idays, too. But Har­ry was glad that most peo­ple were leav­ing. He was tired of peo­ple skirt­ing around him in the cor­ri­dors, as though he was about to sprout fangs or spit poi­son; tired of all the mut­ter­ing, point­ing, and hiss­ing as he passed.

Fred and George, how­ev­er, found all this very fun­ny. They went out of their way to march ahead of Har­ry down the cor­ri­dors, shout­ing, “Make way for the Heir of Slytherin, se­ri­ous­ly evil wiz­ard com­ing through…”

Per­cy was deeply dis­ap­prov­ing of this be­hav­ior.

“It is not a laugh­ing mat­ter,” he said cold­ly.

“Oh, get out of the way, Per­cy,” said Fred. “Har­ry’s in a hur­ry.”

“Yeah, he’s off to the Cham­ber of Se­crets for a cup of tea with his fanged ser­vant,” said George, chortling.

Gin­ny didn’t find it amus­ing ei­ther.

“Oh, don’t,” she wailed ev­ery time Fred asked Har­ry loud­ly who he was plan­ning to at­tack next, or when George pre­tend­ed to ward Har­ry off with a large clove of gar­lic when they met.

Har­ry didn’t mind; it made him feel bet­ter that Fred and George, at least, thought the idea of his be­ing Slytherin’s heir was quite lu­di­crous. But their an­tics seemed to be ag­gra­vat­ing Dra­co Mal­foy, who looked in­creas­ing­ly sour each time he saw them at it.

“It’s be­cause he’s burst­ing to say it’s re­al­ly him,” said Ron know­ing­ly. “You know how he hates any­one beat­ing him at any­thing, and you’re get­ting all the cred­it for his dirty work.”

“Not for long,” said Hermione in a sat­is­fied tone. “The Polyjuice Po­tion’s near­ly ready. We’ll be get­ting the truth out of him any day now.”

At last the term end­ed, and a si­lence deep as the snow on the grounds de­scend­ed on the cas­tle. Har­ry found it peace­ful, rather than gloomy, and en­joyed the fact that he, Hermione, and the Weasleys had the run of Gryffind­or Tow­er, which meant they could play Ex­plod­ing Snap loud­ly with­out both­er­ing any­one, and prac­tice du­el­ing in pri­vate. Fred, George, and Gin­ny had cho­sen to stay at school rather than vis­it Bill in Egypt with Mr. and Mrs. Weasley. Per­cy, who dis­ap­proved of what he termed their child­ish be­hav­ior, didn’t spend much time in the Gryffind­or com­mon room. He had al­ready told them pompous­ly that he was on­ly stay­ing over Christ­mas be­cause it was his du­ty as a pre­fect to sup­port the teach­ers dur­ing this trou­bled time.

Christ­mas morn­ing dawned, cold and white. Har­ry and Ron, the on­ly ones left in their dor­mi­to­ry, were wo­ken very ear­ly by Hermione, who burst in, ful­ly dressed and car­ry­ing presents for them both.

“Wake up,” she said loud­ly, pulling back the cur­tains at the win­dow.

“Hermione — you’re not sup­posed to be in here —” said Ron, shield­ing his eyes against the light.

“Mer­ry Christ­mas to you, too,” said Hermione, throw­ing him his present. “I’ve been up for near­ly an hour, adding more lacewings to the po­tion. It’s ready.”

Har­ry sat up, sud­den­ly wide awake.

“Are you sure?”

“Pos­itive,” said Hermione, shift­ing Scab­bers the rat so that she could sit down on the end of Ron’s four-​poster. “If we’re go­ing to do it, I say it should be tonight.”

At that mo­ment, Hed­wig swooped in­to the room, car­ry­ing a very small pack­age in her beak.

“Hel­lo,” said Har­ry hap­pi­ly as she land­ed on his bed. “Are you speak­ing to me again?”

She nib­bled his ear in an af­fec­tion­ate sort of way, which was a far bet­ter present than the one that she had brought him, which turned out to be from the Durs­leys. They had sent Har­ry a tooth­pick and a note telling him to find out whether he’d be able to stay at Hog­warts for the sum­mer va­ca­tion, too.

The rest of Har­ry’s Christ­mas presents were far more sat­is­fac­to­ry. Ha­grid had sent him a large tin of trea­cle fudge, which Har­ry de­cid­ed to soft­en by the fire be­fore eat­ing; Ron had giv­en him a book called Fly­ing with the Can­nons, a book of in­ter­est­ing facts about his fa­vorite Quid­ditch team, and Hermione had bought him a lux­uri­ous ea­gle-​feath­er quill. Har­ry opened the last present to find a new, hand-​knit­ted sweater from Mrs. Weasley and a large plum cake. He read her card with a fresh surge of guilt, think­ing about Mr. Weasley’s car (which hadn’t been seen since its crash with the Whomp­ing Wil­low), and the bout of rule-​break­ing he and Ron were plan­ning next.

No one, not even some­one dread­ing tak­ing Polyjuice Po­tion lat­er, could fail to en­joy Christ­mas din­ner at Hog­warts.

The Great Hall looked mag­nif­icent. Not on­ly were there a dozen frost-​cov­ered Christ­mas trees and thick stream­ers of hol­ly and mistle­toe criss­cross­ing the ceil­ing, but en­chant­ed snow was falling, warm and dry, from the ceil­ing. Dum­ble­dore led them in a few of his fa­vorite car­ols, Ha­grid boom­ing more and more loud­ly with ev­ery gob­let of eggnog he con­sumed. Per­cy, who hadn’t no­ticed that Fred had be­witched his pre­fect badge so that it now read “Pin­head,” kept ask­ing them all what they were snig­ger­ing at. Har­ry didn’t even care that Dra­co Mal­foy was mak­ing loud, snide re­mark about his new sweater from the Slytherin ta­ble. With a bit of luck, Mal­foy would be get­ting his come­up­pance in a few hours’ time.

Har­ry and Ron had bare­ly fin­ished their third help­ings of Christ­mas pud­ding when Hermione ush­ered them out of the hall to fi­nal­ize their plans for the evening.

“We still need a bit of the peo­ple you’re chang­ing in­to,” said Hermione mat­ter-​of-​fact­ly, as though she were send­ing them to the su­per­mar­ket for laun­dry de­ter­gent. “And ob­vi­ous­ly, it’ll be best if you can get some­thing of Crabbe’s and Goyle’s; they’re Mal­foys best friends, he’ll tell them any­thing. And we al­so need to make sure the re­al Crabbe and Goyle can’t burst in on us while we’re in­ter­ro­gat­ing him.

“I’ve got it all worked out,” she went on smooth­ly, ig­nor­ing Har­ry’s and Ron’s stu­pe­fied faces. She held up two plump choco­late cakes. “I’ve filled these with a sim­ple Sleep­ing Draught. All you have to do is make sure Crabbe and Goyle find them. You know how greedy they are, they’re bound to eat them. Once they’re asleep, pull out a few of their hairs and hide them in a broom clos­et.”

Har­ry and Ron looked in­cred­ulous­ly at each oth­er.

“Hermione, I don’t think —”

“That could go se­ri­ous­ly wrong —”

But Hermione had a steely glint in her eye not un­like the one Pro­fes­sor McG­ona­gall some­times had.

“The po­tion will be use­less with­out Crabbe’s and Goyle’s hair,” she said stern­ly. “You do want to in­ves­ti­gate Mal­foy, don’t you?”

“Oh, all right, all right,” said Har­ry. “But what about you? Whose hair are you rip­ping out?”

“I’ve al­ready got mine!” said Hermione bright­ly, pulling a tiny bot­tle out of her pock­et and show­ing them the sin­gle hair in­side it. “Re­mem­ber Mil­li­cent Bul­strode wrestling with me at the Du­el­ing Club? She left this on my robes when she was try­ing to stran­gle me! And she’s gone home for Christ­mas — so I’ll just have to tell the Slytherins I’ve de­cid­ed to come back.”

When Hermione had bus­tled off to check on the Polyjuice Po­tion again, Ron turned to Har­ry with a doom-​laden ex­pres­sion.

“Have you ev­er heard of a plan where so many things could go wrong?”

But to Har­ry’s and Ron’s ut­ter amaze­ment, stage one of the op­er­ation went just as smooth­ly as Hermione had said. They lurked in the de­sert­ed en­trance hall af­ter Christ­mas tea, wait­ing for Crabbe and Goyle who had re­mained alone at the Slytherin ta­ble, shov­el­ing down fourth help­ings of tri­fle. Har­ry had perched the choco­late cakes on the end of the ban­is­ters. When they spot­ted Crabbe and Goyle com­ing out of the Great Hall, Har­ry and Ron hid quick­ly be­hind a suit of ar­mor next to the front door.

“How thick can you get?” Ron whis­pered ec­stat­ical­ly as Crabbe glee­ful­ly point­ed out the cakes to Goyle and grabbed them. Grin­ning stupid­ly, they stuffed the cakes whole in­to their large mouths. For a mo­ment, both of them chewed greed­ily, looks of tri­umph on their faces. Then, with­out the small­est change of ex­pres­sion, they both keeled over back­ward on­to the floor.

By far the hard­est part was hid­ing them in the clos­et across the hall. Once they were safe­ly stowed among the buck­ets and mops, Har­ry yanked out a cou­ple of the bris­tles that cov­ered Goyle’s fore­head and Ron pulled out sev­er­al of Crabbe’s hairs. They al­so stole their shoes, be­cause their own were far too small for Crabbe- and Goyle-​size feet. Then, still stunned at what they had just done, they sprint­ed up to Moan­ing Myr­tle’s bath­room.

They could hard­ly see for the thick black smoke is­su­ing from the stall in which Hermione was stir­ring the caul­dron. Pulling their robes up over their faces, Har­ry and Ron knocked soft­ly on the door.

“Hermione?”

They heard the scrape of the lock and Hermione emerged, shiny-​faced and look­ing anx­ious. Be­hind her they heard the gloop gloop of the bub­bling, gluti­nous po­tion. Three glass tum­blers stood ready on the toi­let seat.

“Did you get them?” Hermione asked breath­less­ly.

Har­ry showed her Goyle’s hair.

“Good. And I sneaked these spare robes out of the laun­dry,” Hermione said, hold­ing up a small sack. “You’ll need big­ger sizes once you’re Crabbe and Goyle.”

The three of them stared in­to the caul­dron. Close up, the po­tion looked like thick, dark mud, bub­bling slug­gish­ly.

“I’m sure I’ve done ev­ery­thing right,” said Hermione, ner­vous­ly reread­ing the splotched page of Moste Po­tente Po­tions. “It looks like the book says it should … once we’ve drunk it, we’ll have ex­act­ly an hour be­fore we change back in­to our­selves.”

“Now what?” Ron whis­pered.

“We sep­arate it in­to three glass­es and add the hairs.”

Hermione la­dled large dol­lops of the po­tion in­to each of the glass­es. Then, her hand trem­bling, she shook Mil­li­cent Bul­strode’s hair out of its bot­tle in­to the first glass.

The po­tion hissed loud­ly like a boil­ing ket­tle and frothed mad­ly. A sec­ond lat­er, it had turned a sick sort of yel­low.

“Urgh — essence of Mil­li­cent Bul­strode,” said Ron, eye­ing it with loathing. “Bet it tastes dis­gust­ing.”

“Add yours, then,” said Hermione.

Har­ry dropped Goyle’s hair in­to the mid­dle glass and Ron put Crabbe’s in­to the last one. Both glass­es hissed and frothed: Goyle’s turned the kha­ki col­or of a booger, Crabbe’s a dark, murky brown.

“Hang on,” said Har­ry as Ron and Hermione reached for their glass­es. “We’d bet­ter not all drink them in here …. Once we turn in­to Crabbe and Goyle we won’t fit. And Mil­li­cent Bul­strode’s no pix­ie.”

“Good think­ing,” said Ron, un­lock­ing the door. “We’ll take sep­arate stalls.”

Care­ful not to spill a drop of his Polyjuice Po­tion, Har­ry slipped in­to the mid­dle stall.

“Ready?” he called.

“Ready,” came Ron’s and Hermione’s voic­es.

“One — two — three —”

Pinch­ing his nose, Har­ry drank the po­tion down in two large gulps. It tast­ed like over­cooked cab­bage.

Im­me­di­ate­ly, his in­sides start­ed writhing as though he’d just swal­lowed live snakes — dou­bled up, he won­dered whether he was go­ing to be sick — then a burn­ing sen­sa­tion spread rapid­ly from his stom­ach to the very ends of his fin­gers and toes — next, bring­ing him gasp­ing to all fours, came a hor­ri­ble melt­ing feel­ing, as the skin all over his body bub­bled like hot wax — and be­fore his eyes, his hands be­gan to grow, the fin­gers thick­ened, the nails broad­ened, the knuck­les were bulging like bolts — his shoul­ders stretched painful­ly and a prick­ling on his fore­head told him that hair was creep­ing down to­ward his eye­brows — his robes ripped as his chest ex­pand­ed like a bar­rel burst­ing its hoops — his feet were agony in shoes four sizes too small.

As sud­den­ly as it had start­ed, ev­ery­thing stopped. Har­ry lay face­down on the stone-​cold floor, lis­ten­ing to Myr­tle gur­gling mo­rose­ly in the end toi­let. With dif­fi­cul­ty, he kicked off his shoes and stood up. So this was what it felt like, be­ing Goyle. His large hand trem­bling, he pulled off his old robes, which were hang­ing a foot above his an­kles, pulled on the spare ones, and laced up Goyle’s boat­like shoes. He reached up to brush his hair out of his eyes and met on­ly the short growth of wiry bris­tles, low on his fore­head. Then he re­al­ized that his glass­es were cloud­ing his eyes be­cause Goyle ob­vi­ous­ly didn’t need them — he took them off and called, “Are you two okay?” Goyle’s low rasp of a voice is­sued from his mouth.

“Yeah,” came the deep grunt of Crabbe from his right.

Har­ry un­locked his door and stepped in front of the cracked mir­ror. Goyle stared back at him out of dull, deepset eyes. Har­ry scratched his ear. So did Goyle.

Ron’s door opened. They stared at each oth­er. Ex­cept that he looked pale and shocked, Ron was in­dis­tin­guish­able from Crabbe, from the pud­ding-​bowl hair­cut to the long, go­ril­la arms.

“This is un­be­liev­able,” said Ron, ap­proach­ing the mir­ror and prod­ding Crabbe’s flat nose. “Un­be­liev­able.”

“We’d bet­ter get go­ing,” said Har­ry, loos­en­ing the watch that was cut­ting in­to Goyle’s thick wrist. “We’ve still got to find out where the Slytherin com­mon room is. I on­ly hope we can find some­one to fol­low…”

Ron, who had been gaz­ing at Har­ry, said, “You don’t know how bizarre it is to see Goyle think­ing.” He banged on Hermione’s door. “C’mon, we need to go —”

A high-​pitched voice an­swered him.

“I — I don’t think I’m go­ing to come af­ter all. You go on with­out me.”

“Hermione, we know Mil­li­cent Bul­strode’s ug­ly, no one’s go­ing to know it’s you —”

“No — re­al­ly — I don’t think I’ll come. You two hur­ry up, you’re wast­ing time —”

Har­ry looked at Ron, be­wil­dered.

“That looks more like Goyle,” said Ron. “That’s how he looks ev­ery time a teach­er asks him a ques­tion.”

“Hermione, are you okay?” said Har­ry through the door.

“Fine — I’m fine — go on —”

Har­ry looked at his watch. Five of their pre­cious six­ty min­utes had al­ready passed.

“We’ll meet you back here, all right?” he said.

Har­ry and Ron opened the door of the bath­room care­ful­ly, checked that the coast was clear, and set off.

“Don’t swing your arms like that,” Har­ry mut­tered to Ron.

“Eh?”

“Crabbe holds them sort of stiff…”

“How’s this?”

“Yeah, that’s bet­ter…”

They went down the mar­ble stair­case. All they need­ed now was a Slytherin that they could fol­low to the Slytherin com­mon room, but there was no­body around.

“Any ideas?” mut­tered Har­ry.

“The Slytherins al­ways come up to break­fast from over there,” said Ron, nod­ding at the en­trance to the dun­geons. The words had bare­ly left his mouth when a girl with long, curly hair emerged from the en­trance.

“Ex­cuse me,” said Ron, hur­ry­ing up to her. “We’ve for­got­ten the way to our com­mon room.”

“I beg your par­don?” said the girl stiffly. “Our com­mon room? I’m a Raven­claw.”

She walked away, look­ing sus­pi­cious­ly back at them.

Har­ry and Ron hur­ried down the stone steps in­to the dark­ness, their foot­steps echo­ing par­tic­ular­ly loud­ly as Crabbe’s and Goyle’s huge feet hit the floor, feel­ing that this wasn’t go­ing to be as easy as they had hoped.

The labyrinthine pas­sages were de­sert­ed. They walked deep­er and deep­er un­der the school, con­stant­ly check­ing their watch­es to see how much time they had left. Af­ter a quar­ter of an hour, just when they were get­ting des­per­ate, they heard a sud­den move­ment ahead.

“Ha!” said Ron ex­cit­ed­ly. “There’s one of them now!”

The fig­ure was emerg­ing from a side room. As they hur­ried near­er, how­ev­er, their hearts sank. It wasn’t a Slytherin, it was Per­cy.

“What’re you do­ing down here?” said Ron in sur­prise.

Per­cy looked af­front­ed.

“That,” he said stiffly, “is none of your busi­ness. It’s Crabbe, isn’t it?”

“Wh — oh, yeah,” said Ron.

“Well, get off to your dor­mi­to­ries,” said Per­cy stern­ly. “It’s not safe to go wan­der­ing around dark cor­ri­dors these days.”

“You are,” Ron point­ed out.

“I,” said Per­cy, draw­ing him­self up, “am a pre­fect. Noth­ing’s about to at­tack me.”

A voice sud­den­ly echoed be­hind Har­ry and Ron. Dra­co Mal­foy was strolling to­ward them, and for the first time in his life, Har­ry was pleased to see him.

“There you are,” he drawled, look­ing at them. “Have you two been pig­ging out in the Great Hall all this time? I’ve been look­ing for you; I want to show you some­thing re­al­ly fun­ny.”

Mal­foy glanced with­er­ing­ly at Per­cy.

“And what’re you do­ing down here, Weasley?” he sneered.

Per­cy looked out­raged.

“You want to show a bit more re­spect to a school pre­fect!” he said. “I don’t like your at­ti­tude!”

Mal­foy sneered and mo­tioned for Har­ry and Ron to fol­low him. Har­ry al­most said some­thing apolo­get­ic to Per­cy but caught him­self just in time. He and Ron hur­ried af­ter Mal­foy, who said as they turned in­to the next pas­sage, “That Pe­ter Weasley —”

“Per­cy,” Ron cor­rect­ed him au­to­mat­ical­ly.

“What­ev­er,” said Mal­foy. “I’ve no­ticed him sneak­ing around a lot late­ly. And I bet I know what he’s up to. He thinks he’s go­ing to catch Slytherin’s heir sin­gle-​hand­ed.”

He gave a short, de­ri­sive laugh. Har­ry and Ron ex­changed ex­cit­ed looks.

Mal­foy paused by a stretch of bare, damp stone wall.

“What’s the new pass­word again?” he said to Har­ry.

“Er —” said Har­ry.

“Oh, yeah — pure-​blood!” said Mal­foy, not lis­ten­ing, and a stone door con­cealed in the wall slid open. Mal­foy marched through it, and Har­ry and Ron fol­lowed him.

The Slytherin com­mon room was a long, low un­der­ground room with rough stone walls and ceil­ing from which round, green­ish lamps were hang­ing on chains. A fire was crack­ling un­der an elab­orate­ly carved man­tel­piece ahead of them, and sev­er­al Slytherins were sil­hou­et­ted around it in high-​backed chairs.

“Wait here,” said Mal­foy to Har­ry and Ron, mo­tion­ing them to a pair of emp­ty chairs set back from the fire. “I’ll go and get it my fa­ther’s just sent it to me —”

Won­der­ing what Mal­foy was go­ing to show them, Har­ry and Ron sat down, do­ing their best to look at home.

Mal­foy came back a minute lat­er, hold­ing what looked like a news­pa­per clip­ping. He thrust it un­der Ron’s nose.

“That’ll give you a laugh,” he said.

Har­ry saw Ron’s eyes widen in shock. He read the clip­ping quick­ly, gave a very forced laugh, and hand­ed it to Har­ry.



It had been clipped out of the Dai­ly Prophet, and it said:



IN­QUIRY AT THE MIN­ISTRY OF MAG­IC

Arthur Weasley, Head of the Mis­use of Mug­gle Ar­ti­facts Of­fice, was to­day fined fifty Galleons for be­witch­ing a Mug­gle car.

Mr. Lu­cius Mal­foy, a gov­er­nor of Hog­warts School of Witchcraft and Wiz­ardry, where the en­chant­ed car crashed ear­li­er this year, called to­day for Mr. Weasley’s res­ig­na­tion. “Weasley has brought the Min­istry in­to dis­re­pute,” Mr. Mal­foy told our re­porter. “He is clear­ly un­fit to draw up our laws and his ridicu­lous Mug­gle Pro­tec­tion Act should be scrapped im­me­di­ate­ly.”

Mr. Weasley was un­avail­able for com­ment, al­though his wife told re­porters to clear off or she’d set the fam­ily ghoul on them.



“Well?” said Mal­foy im­pa­tient­ly as Har­ry hand­ed the clip­ping back to him. “Don’t you think it’s fun­ny?”

“Ha, ha,” said Har­ry bleak­ly.

“Arthur Weasley loves Mug­gles so much he should snap his wand in half and go and join them,” said Mal­foy scorn­ful­ly. “You’d nev­er know the Weasleys were pure-​bloods, the way they be­have.”

Ron’s — or rather, Crabbe’s — face was con­tort­ed with fury.

“What’s up with you, Crabbe?” snapped Mal­foy.

“Stom­achache,” Ron grunt­ed.

“Well, go up to the hos­pi­tal wing and give all those Mud­bloods a kick from me,” said Mal­foy, snick­er­ing. “You know, I’m sur­prised the Dai­ly Prophet hasn’t re­port­ed all these at­tacks yet,” he went on thought­ful­ly. “I sup­pose Dum­ble­dore’s try­ing to hush it all up. He’ll be sacked if it doesn’t stop soon. Fa­ther’s al­ways said old Dum­ble­dore’s the worst thing that’s ev­er hap­pened to this place. He loves Mug­gle-​borns. A de­cent head­mas­ter would nev­er’ve let slime like that Creevey in.”

Mal­foy start­ed tak­ing pic­tures with an imag­inary cam­era and did a cru­el but ac­cu­rate im­pres­sion of Col­in: “`Pot­ter, can I have your pic­ture, Pot­ter? Can I have your au­to­graph? Can I lick your shoes, please, Pot­ter?”’

He dropped his hands and looked at Har­ry and Ron.

“What’s the mat­ter with you two?”

Far too late, Har­ry and Ron forced them­selves to laugh, but Mal­foy seemed sat­is­fied; per­haps Crabbe and Goyle were al­ways slow on the up­take.

“Saint Pot­ter, the Mud­bloods’ friend,” said Mal­foy slow­ly. “He’s an­oth­er one with no prop­er wiz­ard feel­ing, or he wouldn’t go around with that jumped up Granger Mud­blood. And peo­ple think he’s Slytherin’s heir!”

Har­ry and Ron wait­ed with bat­ed breath: Mal­foy was sure­ly sec­onds away from telling them it was him — but then “I wish I knew who it is,” said Mal­foy petu­lant­ly. “I could help them.”

Ron’s jaw dropped so that Crabbe looked even more clue­less than usu­al. For­tu­nate­ly, Mal­foy didn’t no­tice, and Har­ry, think­ing fast, said, “You must have some idea who’s be­hind it all…”

“You know I haven’t, Goyle, how many times do I have to tell you?” snapped Mal­foy. “And Fa­ther won’t tell me any­thing about the last time the Cham­ber was opened ei­ther. Of course, it was fifty years ago, so it was be­fore his time, but he knows all about it, and he says that it was all kept qui­et and it’ll look sus­pi­cious if I know too much about it. But I know one thing — last time the Cham­ber of Se­crets was opened, a Mud­blood died. So I bet it’s a mat­ter of time be­fore one of them’s killed this time…I hope it’s Granger,” he said with rel­ish.

Ron was clench­ing Crabbe’s gi­gan­tic fists. Feel­ing that it would be a bit of a give­away if Ron punched Mal­foy, Har­ry shot him a warn­ing look and said, “D’you know if the per­son who opened the Cham­ber last time was caught?”

“Oh, yeah…who­ev­er it was was ex­pelled,” said Mal­foy. “They’re prob­ably still in Azk­aban.”

“Azk­aban?” said Har­ry, puz­zled.

“Azk­aban — the wiz­ard prison, Goyle,” said Mal­foy, look­ing at him in dis­be­lief “Hon­est­ly, if you were any slow­er, you’d be go­ing back­ward.”

He shift­ed rest­less­ly in his chair and said, “Fa­ther says to keep my head down and let the Heir of Slytherin get on with it. He says the school needs rid­ding of all the Mud­blood filth, but not to get mixed up in it. Of course, he’s got a lot on his plate at the mo­ment. You know the Min­istry of Mag­ic raid­ed our manor last week?”

Har­ry tried to force Goyle’s dull face in­to a look of con­cern.

“Yeah…” said Mal­foy. “Luck­ily, they didn’t find much. Fa­ther’s got some very valu­able Dark Arts stuff. But luck­ily, we’ve got our own se­cret cham­ber un­der the draw­ing-​room floor —”

“Ho!” said Ron.

Mal­foy looked at him. So did Har­ry. Ron blushed. Even his hair was turn­ing red. His nose was al­so slow­ly length­en­ing — their hour was up, Ron was turn­ing back in­to him­self, and from the look of hor­ror he was sud­den­ly giv­ing Har­ry, he must be, too.

They both jumped to their feet.

“Medicine for my stom­ach,” Ron grunt­ed, and with­out fur­ther ado they sprint­ed the length of the Slytherin com­mon room, hurled them­selves at the stone wall, and dashed up the pas­sage, hop­ing against hope that Mal­foy hadn’t no­ticed any­thing. Har­ry could feel his feet slip­ping around in Goyle’s huge shoes and had to hoist up his robes as he shrank; they crashed up the steps in­to the dark en­trance hall, which was full of a muf­fled pound­ing com­ing from the clos­et where they’d locked Crabbe and Goyle. Leav­ing their shoes out­side the clos­et door, they sprint­ed in their socks up the mar­ble stair­case to­ward Moan­ing Myr­tle’s bath­room.

“Well, it wasn’t a com­plete waste of time,” Ron pant­ed, clos­ing the bath­room door be­hind them. “I know we still haven’t found out who’s do­ing the at­tacks, but I’m go­ing to write to Dad to­mor­row and tell him to check un­der the Mal­foys’ draw­ing room.”

Har­ry checked his face in the cracked mir­ror. He was back to nor­mal. He put his glass­es on as Ron ham­mered on the door of Hermione’s stall.

“Hermione, come out, we’ve got loads to tell you —”

“Go away!” Hermione squeaked.

Har­ry and Ron looked at each oth­er.

“What’s the mat­ter?” said Ron. “You must be back to nor­mal by now, we are.”

But Moan­ing Myr­tle glid­ed sud­den­ly through the stall door. Har­ry had nev­er seen her look­ing so hap­py.

“Ooooooh, wait till you see,” she said. “It’s aw­ful —”

They heard the lock slide back and Hermione emerged, sob­bing, her robes pulled up over her head.

“What’s up?” said Ron un­cer­tain­ly. “Have you still got Mil­li­cent’s nose or some­thing?”

Hermione let her robes fall and Ron backed in­to the sink.

Her face was cov­ered in black fur. Her eyes had turned yel­low and there were long, point­ed ears pok­ing through her hair.

“It was a c-​cat hair!” she howled. “M-​Mil­li­cent Bul­strode m-​must have a cat! And the p-​po­tion isn’t sup­posed to be used for an­imal trans­for­ma­tions!”

“Uh-​oh,” said Ron.

“You’ll be teased some­thing dread­ful,” said Myr­tle hap­pi­ly.

“It’s okay, Hermione,” said Har­ry quick­ly. “We’ll take you up to the hos­pi­tal wing. Madam Pom­frey nev­er asks too many ques­tions…”

It took a long time to per­suade Hermione to leave the bath­room. Moan­ing Myr­tle sped them on their way with a hearty guf­faw. “Wait till ev­ery­one finds out you’ve got a tail!”





HP 2 - Harry Potter and The Chamber of Secrets





CHAPTER THIRTEEN




THE VERY SE­CRET DI­ARY



Hermione re­mained in the hos­pi­tal wing for sev­er­al weeks. There was a flur­ry of ru­mor about her dis­ap­pear­ance when the rest of the school ar­rived back from their Christ­mas hol­idays, be­cause of course ev­ery­one thought that she had been at­tacked. So many stu­dents filed past the hos­pi­tal wing try­ing to catch a glimpse of her that Madam Pom­frey took out her cur­tains again and placed them around Hermione’s bed, to spare her the shame of be­ing seen with a fur­ry face.

Har­ry and Ron went to vis­it her ev­ery evening. When the new term start­ed, they brought her each day’s home­work.

“If I’d sprout­ed whiskers, I’d take a break from work,” said Ron, tip­ping a stack of books on­to Hermione’s bed­side ta­ble one evening.

“Don’t be sil­ly, Ron, I’ve got to keep up,” said Hermione briskly. Her spir­its were great­ly im­proved by the fact that all the hair had gone from her face and her eyes were turn­ing slow­ly back to brown. “I don’t sup­pose you’ve got any new leads?” she added in a whis­per, so that Madam Pom­frey couldn’t hear her.

“Noth­ing,” said Har­ry gloomi­ly.

“I was so sure it was Mal­foy,” said Ron, for about the hun­dredth time.

“What’s that?” asked Har­ry, point­ing to some­thing gold stick­ing out from un­der Hermione’s pil­low.

“Just a get well card,” said Hermione hasti­ly, try­ing to poke it out of sight, but Ron was too quick for her. He pulled it out, flicked it open, and read aloud:



“To Miss Granger, wish­ing you a speedy re­cov­ery, from your con­cerned teach­er, Pro­fes­sor Gilderoy Lock­hart, Or­der of Mer­lin, Third Class, Hon­orary Mem­ber of the Dark Force De­fense League, and five-​time win­ner of Witch Week­ly’s Most Charm­ing Smile Award.”



Ron looked up at Hermione, dis­gust­ed.

“You sleep with this un­der your pil­low?”

But Hermione was spared an­swer­ing by Madam Pom­frey sweep­ing over with her evening dose of medicine.

“Is Lock­hart the smarmi­est bloke you’ve ev­er met, or what?” Ron said to Har­ry as they left the in­fir­mary and start­ed up the stairs to­ward Gryffind­or Tow­er.

Snape had giv­en them so much home­work, Har­ry thought he was like­ly to be in the sixth year be­fore he fin­ished it. Ron was just say­ing he wished he had asked Hermione how many rat tails you were sup­posed to add to a Hair Rais­ing Po­tion when an an­gry out­burst from the floor above reached their ears.

“That’s Filch,” Har­ry mut­tered as they hur­ried up the stairs and paused, out of sight, lis­ten­ing hard.

“You don’t think some­one else’s been at­tacked?” said Ron tense­ly.

They stood still, their heads in­clined to­ward Flich’s voice, which sound­ed quite hys­ter­ical.

“even more work for me! Mop­ping all night, like I haven’t got enough to do! No, this is the fi­nal straw, I’m go­ing to Dum­ble­dore —”

His foot­steps re­ced­ed along the out-​of-​sight cor­ri­dor and they heard a dis­tant door slam.

They poked their heads around the cor­ner. Filch had clear­ly been man­ning his usu­al look­out post: They were once again on the spot where Mrs. Nor­ris had been at­tacked. They saw at a glance what Filch had been shout­ing about. A great flood of wa­ter stretched over half the cor­ri­dor, and it looked as though it was still seep­ing from un­der the door of Moan­ing Myr­tle’s bath­room. Now that Filch had stopped shout­ing, they could hear Myr­tle’s wails echo­ing off the bath­room walls.

“Now what’s up with her?” said Ron.

“Let’s go and see,” said Har­ry, and hold­ing their robes over their an­kles they stepped through the great wash of wa­ter to the door bear­ing its OUT OF OR­DER sign, ig­nored it as al­ways, and en­tered.

Moan­ing Myr­tle was cry­ing, if pos­si­ble, loud­er and hard­er than ev­er be­fore. She seemed to be hid­ing down her usu­al toi­let. It was dark in the bath­room be­cause the can­dles had been ex­tin­guished in the great rush of wa­ter that had left both walls and floor soak­ing wet.

“What’s up, Myr­tle?” said Har­ry.

“Who’s that?” glugged Myr­tle mis­er­ably. “Come to throw some­thing else at me?”

Har­ry wad­ed across to her stall and said, “Why would I throw some­thing at you?”

“Don’t ask me,” Myr­tle shout­ed, emerg­ing with a wave of yet more wa­ter, which splashed on­to the al­ready sop­ping floor. “Here I am, mind­ing my own busi­ness, and some­one thinks it’s fun­ny to throw a book at me…”

“But it can’t hurt you if some­one throws some­thing at you,” said Har­ry, rea­son­ably. “I mean, it’d just go right through you, wouldn’t it?”

He had said the wrong thing. Myr­tle puffed her­self up and shrieked, “Let’s all throw books at Myr­tle, be­cause she can’t feel it! Ten points if you can get it through her stom­ach! Fifty points if it goes through her head! Well, ha, ha, ha! What a love­ly game, I don’t think!”

“Who threw it at you, any­way?” asked Har­ry.

“I don’t know… I was just sit­ting in the U-​bend, think­ing about death, and it fell right through the top of my head,” said Myr­tle, glar­ing at them. “It’s over there, it got washed out…”

Har­ry and Ron looked un­der the sink where Myr­tle was point­ing. A small, thin book lay there. It had a shab­by black cov­er and was as wet as ev­ery­thing else in the bath­room. Har­ry stepped for­ward to pick it up, but Ron sud­den­ly flung out an arm to hold him back.

“What?” said Har­ry.

“Are you crazy?” said Ron. “It could be dan­ger­ous.”

“Dan­ger­ous?”said Har­ry, laugh­ing. “Come off it, how could it be dan­ger­ous?”

“You’d be sur­prised,” said Ron, who was look­ing ap­pre­hen­sive­ly at the book. “Some of the books the Min­istry’s con­fis­cat­ed Dad’s told me — there was one that burned your eyes out. And ev­ery­one who read Son­nets of a Sor­cer­er spoke in lim­er­icks for the rest of their lives. And some old witch in Bath had a book that you could nev­er stop read­ing! You just had to wan­der around with your nose in it, try­ing to do ev­ery­thing one-​hand­ed. And —”

“All right, I’ve got the point,” said Har­ry.

The lit­tle book lay on the floor, non­de­script and sog­gy.

“Well, we won’t find out un­less we look at it,” he said, and he ducked around Ron and picked it up off the floor.

Har­ry saw at once that it was a di­ary, and the fad­ed year on the cov­er told him it was fifty years old. He opened it ea­ger­ly. On the first page he could just make out the name “T M. Rid­dle” in smudged ink.

“Hang on,” said Ron, who had ap­proached cau­tious­ly and was look­ing over Har­ry’s shoul­der. “I know that name…T. M. Rid­dle got an award for spe­cial ser­vices to the school fifty years ago.”

“How on earth d’you know that?” said Har­ry in amaze­ment.

“Be­cause Filch made me pol­ish his shield about fifty times in de­ten­tion,” said Ron re­sent­ful­ly. “That was the one I burped slugs all over. If you’d wiped slime off a name for an hour, you’d re­mem­ber it, too.”

Har­ry peeled the wet pages apart. They were com­plete­ly blank. There wasn’t the faintest trace of writ­ing on any of them, not even Aun­tie Ma­bel’s birth­day, or den­tist, half-​past three.

“He nev­er wrote in it,” said Har­ry, dis­ap­point­ed.

“I won­der why some­one want­ed to flush it away?” said Ron cu­ri­ous­ly.

Har­ry turned to the back cov­er of the book and saw the print­ed name of a va­ri­ety store on Vaux­hall Road, Lon­don.

“He must’ve been Mug­gle-​born,” said Har­ry thought­ful­ly. “To have bought a di­ary from Vaux­hall Road…”

“Well, it’s not much use to you,” said Ron. He dropped his voice. “Fifty points if you can get it through Myr­tle’s nose.”

Har­ry, how­ev­er, pock­et­ed it.

Hermione left the hos­pi­tal wing, de-​whiskered, tail-​less, and furfree, at the be­gin­ning of Febru­ary. On her first evening back in Gryffind­or Tow­er, Har­ry showed her T. M. Rid­dle’s di­ary and told her the sto­ry of how they had found it.

“Oooh, it might have hid­den pow­ers,” said Hermione en­thu­si­as­ti­cal­ly, tak­ing the di­ary and look­ing at it close­ly.

“If it has, it’s hid­ing them very well,” said Ron. “Maybe it’s shy. I don’t know why you don’t chuck it, Har­ry.”

“I wish I knew why some­one did try to chuck it,” said Har­ry. “I wouldn’t mind know­ing how Rid­dle got an award for spe­cial ser­vices to Hog­warts ei­ther.”

“Could’ve been any­thing,” said Ron. “Maybe he got thir­ty O.W.L.s or saved a teach­er from the gi­ant squid. Maybe he mur­dered Myr­tle; that would’ve done ev­ery­one a fa­vor …”

But Har­ry could tell from the ar­rest­ed look on Hermione’s face that she was think­ing what he was think­ing.

“What?” said Ron, look­ing from one to the oth­er.

“Well, the Cham­ber of Se­crets was opened fifty years ago, wasn’t it?” he said. “That’s what Mal­foy said.”

“Yeah…” said Ron slow­ly.

“And this di­ary is fifty years old,” said Hermione, tap­ping it ex­cit­ed­ly.

“So?”

“Oh, Ron, wake up,” snapped Hermione. “We know the per­son who opened the Cham­ber last time was ex­pelled fifty years ago. We know T. M. Rid­dle got an award for spe­cial ser­vices to the school fifty years ago. Well, what if Rid­dle got his spe­cial award for catch­ing the Heir of Slytherin? His di­ary would prob­ably tell us ev­ery­thing — where the Cham­ber is, and how to open it, and what sort of crea­ture lives in it — the per­son who’s be­hind the at­tacks this time wouldn’t want that ly­ing around, would they?”

“That’s a bril­liant the­ory, Hermione,” said Ron, “with just one tiny lit­tle flaw. There’s noth­ing writ­ten in his di­ary.”

But Hermione was pulling her wand out of her bag.

“It might be in­vis­ible ink!” she whis­pered.

She tapped the di­ary three times and said, “Apare­ci­um!”

Noth­ing hap­pened. Un­daunt­ed, Hermione shoved her hand back in­to her bag and pulled out what ap­peared to be a bright red eras­er.

“It’s a Re­veal­er, I got it in Di­agon Al­ley,” she said.

She rubbed hard on Jan­uary first. Noth­ing hap­pened.

“I’m telling you, there’s noth­ing to find in there,” said Ron. “Rid­dle just got a di­ary for Christ­mas and couldn’t be both­ered fill­ing it in.”

Har­ry couldn’t ex­plain, even to him­self, why he didn’t just throw Rid­dle’s di­ary away. The fact was that even though he knew the di­ary was blank, he kept ab­sent­mind­ed­ly pick­ing it up and turn­ing the pages, as though it were a sto­ry he want­ed to fin­ish. And while Har­ry was sure he had nev­er heard the name T. M. Rid­dle be­fore, it still seemed to mean some­thing to him, al­most as though Rid­dle was a friend he’d had when he was very small, and had half-​for­got­ten. But this was ab­surd. He’d nev­er had friends be­fore Hog­warts, Dud­ley had made sure of that.

Nev­er­the­less, Har­ry was de­ter­mined to find out more about Rid­dle, so next day at break, he head­ed for the tro­phy room to ex­am­ine Rid­dle’s spe­cial award, ac­com­pa­nied by an in­ter­est­ed Hermione and a thor­ough­ly un­con­vinced Ron, who told them he’d seen enough of the tro­phy room to last him a life­time.

Rid­dle’s bur­nished gold shield was tucked away in a cor­ner cab­inet. It didn’t car­ry de­tails of why it had been giv­en to him (“Good thing, too, or it’d be even big­ger and I’d still be pol­ish­ing it,” said Ron). How­ev­er, they did find Rid­dle’s name on an old Medal for Mag­ical Mer­it, and on a list of old Head Boys.

“He sounds like Per­cy,” said Ron, wrin­kling his nose in dis­gust. “Pre­fect, Head Boy …prob­ably top of ev­ery class —”

“You say that like it’s a bad thing,” said Hermione in a slight­ly hurt voice.



The sun had now be­gun to shine weak­ly on Hog­warts again. In­side the cas­tle, the mood had grown more hope­ful. There had been no more at­tacks since those on Justin and Near­ly Head­less Nick, and Madam Pom­frey was pleased to re­port that the Man­drakes were be­com­ing moody and se­cre­tive, mean­ing that they were fast leav­ing child­hood.

“The mo­ment their ac­ne clears up, they’ll be ready for re­pot­ting again,” Har­ry heard her telling Filch kind­ly one af­ter­noon. “And af­ter that, it won’t be long un­til we’re cut­ting them up and stew­ing them. You’ll have Mrs. Nor­ris back in no time.”

Per­haps the Heir of Slytherin had lost his or her nerve, thought Har­ry. It must be get­ting riski­er and riski­er to open the Cham­ber of Se­crets, with the school so alert and sus­pi­cious. Per­haps the mon­ster, what­ev­er it was, was even now set­tling it­self down to hi­ber­nate for an­oth­er fifty years….

Ernie Macmil­lan of Huf­flepuff didn’t take this cheer­ful view. He was still con­vinced that Har­ry was the guilty one, that he had “giv­en him­self away” at the Du­el­ing Club. Peeves wasn’t help­ing mat­ters; he kept pop­ping up in the crowd­ed cor­ri­dors singing “Oh, Pot­ter, you rot­ter…” now with a dance rou­tine to match.

Gilderoy Lock­hart seemed to think he him­self had made the at­tacks stop. Har­ry over­heard him telling Pro­fes­sor McG­ona­gall so while the Gryffind­ors were lin­ing up for Trans­fig­ura­tion. “I don’t think there’ll be any more trou­ble, Min­er­va,” he said, tap­ping his nose know­ing­ly and wink­ing. “I think the Cham­ber has been locked for good this time. The cul­prit must have known it was on­ly a mat­ter of time be­fore I caught him. Rather sen­si­ble to stop now, be­fore I came down hard on him.

“You know, what the school needs now is a morale-​boost­er. Wash away the mem­ories of last term! I won’t say any more just now, but I think I know just the thing…”

He tapped his nose again and strode off.

Lock­hart’s idea of a morale-​boost­er be­came clear at break­fast time on Febru­ary four­teenth. Har­ry hadn’t had much sleep be­cause of a late-​run­ning Quid­ditch prac­tice the night be­fore, and he hur­ried down to the Great Hall, slight­ly late. He thought, for a mo­ment, that he’d walked through the wrong doors.

The walls were all cov­ered with large, lurid pink flow­ers. Worse still, heart-​shaped con­fet­ti was falling from the pale blue ceil­ing. Har­ry went over to the Gryffind­or ta­ble, where Ron was sit­ting look­ing sick­ened, and Hermione seemed to have been over­come with gig­gles.

“What’s go­ing on?” Har­ry asked them, sit­ting down and wip­ing con­fet­ti off his ba­con.

Ron point­ed to the teach­ers’ ta­ble, ap­par­ent­ly too dis­gust­ed to speak. Lock­hart, wear­ing lurid pink robes to match the dec­ora­tions, was wav­ing for si­lence. The teach­ers on ei­ther side of him were look­ing stony-​faced. From where he sat, Har­ry could see a mus­cle go­ing in Pro­fes­sor McG­ona­gall’s cheek. Snape looked as though some­one had just fed him a large beaker of Skele-​Gro.

“Hap­py Valen­tine’s Day!” Lock­hart shout­ed. “And may I thank the forty-​six peo­ple who have so far sent me cards! Yes, I have tak­en the lib­er­ty of ar­rang­ing this lit­tle sur­prise for you all — and it doesn’t end here!”

Lock­hart clapped his hands and through the doors to the en­trance hall marched a dozen surly-​look­ing dwarfs. Not just any dwarfs, how­ev­er. Lock­hart had them all wear­ing gold­en wings and car­ry­ing harps.

“My friend­ly, card-​car­ry­ing cu­pids!” beamed Lock­hart. “They will be rov­ing around the school to­day de­liv­er­ing your valen­tines! And the fun doesn’t stop here! I’m sure my col­leagues will want to en­ter in­to the spir­it of the oc­ca­sion! Why not ask Pro­fes­sor Snape to show you how to whip up a Love Po­tion! And while you’re at it, Pro­fes­sor Flitwick knows more about En­tranc­ing En­chant­ments than any wiz­ard I’ve ev­er met, the sly old dog!”

Pro­fes­sor Flitwick buried his face in his hands. Snape was look­ing as though the first per­son to ask him for a Love Po­tion would be force-​fed poi­son.

“Please, Hermione, tell me you weren’t one of the forty-​six, said Ron as they left the Great Hall for their first les­son. Hermione sud­den­ly be­came very in­ter­est­ed in search­ing her bag for her sched­ule and didn’t an­swer.

All day long, the dwarfs kept barg­ing in­to their class­es to de­liv­er valen­tines, to the an­noy­ance of the teach­ers, and late that af­ter­noon as the Gryffind­ors were walk­ing up­stairs for Charms, one of the dwarfs caught up with Har­ry.

“Oy, you! ‘Ar­ry Pot­ter!” shout­ed a par­tic­ular­ly grim-​look­ing dwarf, el­bow­ing peo­ple out of the way to get to Har­ry.

Hot all over at the thought of be­ing giv­en a valen­tine in front of a line of first years, which hap­pened to in­clude Gin­ny Weasley, Har­ry tried to es­cape. The dwarf, how­ev­er, cut his way through the crowd by kick­ing peo­ple’s shins, and reached him be­fore he’d gone two paces.

“I’ve got a mu­si­cal mes­sage to de­liv­er to ‘Ar­ry Pot­ter in per­son,” he said, twang­ing his harp in a threat­en­ing sort of way.

“Not here,” Har­ry hissed, try­ing to es­cape.

“Stay still!” grunt­ed the dwarf, grab­bing hold of Har­ry’s bag and pulling him back.

“Let me go!” Har­ry snarled, tug­ging.

With a loud rip­ping noise, his bag split in two. His books, wand, parch­ment, and quill spilled on­to the floor and his ink bot­tle smashed over ev­ery­thing.

Har­ry scram­bled around, try­ing to pick it all up be­fore the dwarf start­ed singing, caus­ing some­thing of a holdup in the cor­ri­dor.

“What’s go­ing on here?” came the cold, drawl­ing voice of Dra­co Mal­foy. Har­ry start­ed stuff­ing ev­ery­thing fever­ish­ly in­to his ripped bag, des­per­ate to get away be­fore Mal­foy could hear his mu­si­cal valen­tine.

“What’s all this com­mo­tion?” said an­oth­er fa­mil­iar voice as Per­cy Weasley ar­rived.

Los­ing his head, Har­ry tried to make a run for it, but the dwarf seized him around the knees and brought him crash­ing to the floor.

“Right,” he said, sit­ting on Har­ry’s an­kles. “Here is your singing valen­tine:



His eyes are as green as a fresh pick­led toad,

His hair is as dark as a black­board,

I wish he was mine,

he’s re­al­ly di­vine,

The hero who con­quered the Dark Lord



Har­ry would have giv­en all the gold in Gringotts to evap­orate on the spot. Try­ing valiant­ly to laugh along with ev­ery­one else, he got up, his feet numb from the weight of the dwarf, as Per­cy Weasley did his best to dis­perse the crowd, some of whom were cry­ing with mirth.

“Off you go, off you go, the bell rang five min­utes ago, off to class, now,” he said, shoo­ing some of the younger stu­dents away. “And you, Mal­foy —”

Har­ry, glanc­ing over, saw Mal­foy stoop and snatch up some­thing. Leer­ing, he showed it to Crabbe and Goyle, and Har­ry re­al­ized that he’d got Rid­dle’s di­ary.

“Give that back,” said Har­ry qui­et­ly.

“Won­der what Pot­ter’s writ­ten in this?” said Mal­foy, who ob­vi­ous­ly hadn’t no­ticed the year on the cov­er and thought he had Har­ry’s own di­ary. A hush fell over the on­look­ers. Gin­ny was star­ing from the di­ary to Har­ry, look­ing ter­ri­fied.

“Hand it over, Mal­foy,” said Per­cy stern­ly.

“When I’ve had a look,” said Mal­foy, wav­ing the di­ary taunt­ing­ly at Har­ry.

Per­cy said, “As a school pre­fect —” but Har­ry had lost his tem­per. He pulled out his wand and shout­ed, “Ex­pel­liar­mus!” and just as Snape had dis­armed Lock­hart, so Mal­foy found the di­ary shoot­ing out of his hand in­to the air. Ron, grin­ning broad­ly, caught it.

“Har­ry!” said Per­cy loud­ly. “No mag­ic in the cor­ri­dors. I’ll have to re­port this, you know!”

But Har­ry didn’t care, he was one-​up on Mal­foy, and that was worth five points from Gryffind­or any day. Mal­foy was look­ing fu­ri­ous, and as Gin­ny passed him to en­ter her class­room, he yelled spite­ful­ly af­ter her, “I don’t think Pot­ter liked your valen­tine much!”

Gin­ny cov­ered her face with her hands and ran in­to class. Snarling, Ron pulled out his wand, too, but Har­ry pulled him away. Ron didn’t need to spend the whole of Charms belch­ing slugs.

It wasn’t un­til they had reached Pro­fes­sor Flitwick’s class that Har­ry no­ticed some­thing rather odd about Rid­dle’s di­ary. All his oth­er books were drenched in scar­let ink. The di­ary, how­ev­er, was as clean as it had been be­fore the ink bot­tle had smashed all over it. He tried to point this out to Ron, but Ron was hav­ing trou­ble with his wand again; large pur­ple bub­bles were blos­som­ing out of the end, and he wasn’t much in­ter­est­ed in any­thing else.

Har­ry went to bed be­fore any­one else in his dor­mi­to­ry that night. This was part­ly be­cause he didn’t think he could stand Fred and George singing, “His eyes are as green as a fresh pick­led toad” one more time, and part­ly be­cause he want­ed to ex­am­ine Rid­dle’s di­ary again, and knew that Ron thought he was wast­ing his time.

Har­ry sat on his four-​poster and flicked through the blank pages, not one of which had a trace of scar­let ink on it. Then he pulled a new bot­tle out of his bed­side cab­inet, dipped his quill in­to it, and dropped a blot on­to the first page of the di­ary.

The ink shone bright­ly on the pa­per for a sec­ond and then, as though it was be­ing sucked in­to the page, van­ished. Ex­cit­ed, Har­ry load­ed up his quill a sec­ond time and wrote, “My name is Har­ry Pot­ter.”

The words shone mo­men­tar­ily on the page and they, too, sank with­out trace. Then, at last, some­thing hap­pened.

Ooz­ing back out of the page, in his very own ink, came words Har­ry had nev­er writ­ten.

“Hel­lo, Har­ry Pot­ter. My name is Tom Rid­dle. How did you come by my di­ary?”

These words, too, fad­ed away, but not be­fore Har­ry had start­ed to scrib­ble back.

“Some­one tried to flush it down a toi­let.”

He wait­ed ea­ger­ly for Rid­dle’s re­ply.

“Lucky that I record­ed my mem­ories in some more last­ing way than ink. But I al­ways knew that there would be those who would not want this di­ary read.”

“What do you mean?” Har­ry scrawled, blot­ting the page in his ex­cite­ment.

`I mean that this di­ary holds mem­ories of ter­ri­ble things. Things that were cov­ered up. Things that hap­pened at Hog­warts School of Witchcraft and Wiz­ardry.”

“That’s where I am now,” Har­ry wrote quick­ly. “I’m at Hog­warts, and hor­ri­ble stuff’s been hap­pen­ing. Do you know any­thing about the Cham­ber of Se­crets?”

His heart was ham­mer­ing. Rid­dle’s re­ply came quick­ly, his writ­ing be­com­ing un­ti­di­er, as though he was hur­ry­ing to tell all he knew.

“Of course I know about the Cham­ber of Se­crets. In my day, they told us it was a leg­end, that it did not ex­ist. But this was a lie. In my fifth year, the Cham­ber was opened and the mon­ster at­tacked sev­er­al stu­dents, fi­nal­ly killing one. I caught the per­son who’d opened the Cham­ber and he was ex­pelled. But the Head­mas­ter, Pro­fes­sor Dip­pet, ashamed that such a thing had hap­pened at Hog­warts, for­bade me to tell the truth. A sto­ry was giv­en out that the girl had died in a freak ac­ci­dent. They gave me a nice, shiny, en­graved tro­phy for my trou­ble and warned me to keep my mouth shut. But I knew it could hap­pen again. The mon­ster lived on, and the one who had the pow­er to re­lease it was not im­pris­oned.”

Har­ry near­ly up­set his ink bot­tle in his hur­ry to write back.

“It’s hap­pen­ing again now. There have been three at­tacks and no one seems to know who’s be­hind them. Who was it last time?”

“I can show you, if you like, “came Rid­dle’s re­ply. “You don’t have to take my word for it. I can take you in­side my mem­ory of the night when I caught him.”

Har­ry hes­itat­ed, his quill sus­pend­ed over the di­ary. What did Rid­dle mean? How could he be tak­en in­side some­body else’s mem­ory? He glanced ner­vous­ly at the door to the dor­mi­to­ry, which was grow­ing dark. When he looked back at the di­ary, he saw fresh words form­ing.

“Let me show you.”

Har­ry paused for a frac­tion of a sec­ond and then wrote two let­ters.

OK

The pages of the di­ary be­gan to blow as though caught in a high wind, stop­ping halfway through the month of June. Mouth hang­ing open, Har­ry saw that the lit­tle square for June thir­teenth seemed to have turned in­to a minis­cule tele­vi­sion screen. His hands trem­bling slight­ly, he raised the book to press his eye against the lit­tle win­dow, and be­fore he knew what was hap­pen­ing, he was tilt­ing for­ward; the win­dow was widen­ing, he felt his body leave his bed, and he was pitched head­first through the open­ing in the page, in­to a whirl of col­or and shad­ow.

He felt his feet hit sol­id ground, and stood, shak­ing, as the blurred shapes around him came sud­den­ly in­to fo­cus.

He knew im­me­di­ate­ly where he was. This cir­cu­lar room with the sleep­ing por­traits was Dum­ble­dore’s of­fice — but it wasn’t Dum­ble­dore who was sit­ting be­hind the desk. A wiz­ened, frail-​look­ing wiz­ard, bald ex­cept for a few wisps of white hair, was read­ing a let­ter by can­dle­light. Har­ry had nev­er seen this man be­fore.

“I’m sor­ry,” he said shak­ily. “I didn’t mean to butt in —”

But the wiz­ard didn’t look up. He con­tin­ued to read, frown­ing slight­ly. Har­ry drew near­er to his desk and stam­mered, “Er — I’ll just go, shall I?”

Still the wiz­ard ig­nored him. He didn’t seem even to have heard him. Think­ing that the wiz­ard might be deaf, Har­ry raised his voice.

“Sor­ry I dis­turbed you. I’ll go now,” he half-​shout­ed.

The wiz­ard fold­ed up the let­ter with a sigh, stood up, walked past Har­ry with­out glanc­ing at him, and went to draw the cur­tains at his win­dow.

The sky out­side the win­dow was ru­by-​red; it seemed to be sun­set. The wiz­ard went back to the desk, sat down, and twid­dled his thumbs, watch­ing the door.

Har­ry looked around the of­fice. No Fawkes the phoenix — no whirring sil­ver con­trap­tions. This was Hog­warts as Rid­dle had known it, mean­ing that this un­known wiz­ard was Head­mas­ter, not Dum­ble­dore, and he, Har­ry, was lit­tle more than a phan­tom, com­plete­ly in­vis­ible to the peo­ple of fifty years ago.

There was a knock on the of­fice door.

“En­ter,” said the old wiz­ard in a fee­ble voice.

A boy of about six­teen en­tered, tak­ing off his point­ed hat. A sil­ver pre­fect’s badge was glint­ing on his chest. He was much taller than Har­ry, but he, too, had jet-​black hair.

“Ah, Rid­dle,” said the Head­mas­ter.

“You want­ed to see me, Pro­fes­sor Dip­pet?” said Rid­dle. He looked ner­vous.

“Sit down,” said Dip­pet. “I’ve just been read­ing the let­ter you sent me.”

“Oh,” said Rid­dle. He sat down, grip­ping his hands to­geth­er very tight­ly.

“My dear boy,” said Dip­per kind­ly, “I can­not pos­si­bly let you stay at school over the sum­mer. Sure­ly you want to go home for the hol­idays?”

“No,” said Rid­dle at once. “I’d much rather stay at Hog­warts than go back to that — to that —”

“You live in a Mug­gle or­phan­age dur­ing the hol­idays, I be­lieve?” said Dip­pet cu­ri­ous­ly.

“Yes, sir,” said Rid­dle, red­den­ing slight­ly.

“You are Mug­gle-​born?”

“Half-​blood, sir,” said Rid­dle. “Mug­gle fa­ther, witch moth­er.”

“And are both your par­ents —?”

“My moth­er died just af­ter I was born, sir. They told me at the or­phan­age she lived just long enough to name me — Tom af­ter my fa­ther, Mar­vo­lo af­ter my grand­fa­ther.”

Dip­per clucked his tongue sym­pa­thet­ical­ly.

“The thing is, Tom,” he sighed, “Spe­cial ar­range­ments might have been made for you, but in the cur­rent cir­cum­stances…”

“You mean all these at­tacks, sir?” said Rid­dle, and Har­ry’s heart leapt, and he moved clos­er, scared of miss­ing any­thing.

“Pre­cise­ly,” said the head­mas­ter. “My dear boy, you must see how fool­ish it would be of me to al­low you to re­main at the cas­tle when term ends. Par­tic­ular­ly in light of the re­cent tragedy… the death of that poor lit­tle girl… You will be safer by far at your or­phan­age. As a mat­ter of fact, the Min­istry of Mag­ic is even now talk­ing about clos­ing the school. We are no near­er lo­cat­ing the — er — source of all this un­pleas­ant­ness…”

Rid­dle’s eyes had widened.

“Sir — if the per­son was caught — if it all stopped —”

“What do you mean?” said Dip­pet with a squeak in his voice, sit­ting up in his chair. “Rid­dle, do you mean you know some­thing about these at­tacks?”

“No, sir,” said Rid­dle quick­ly.

But Har­ry was sure it was the same sort of “no” that he him­self had giv­en Dum­ble­dore.

Dip­pet sank back, look­ing faint­ly dis­ap­point­ed.

“You may go, Tom…”

Rid­dle slid off his chair and slouched out of the room. Har­ry fol­lowed him.

Down the mov­ing spi­ral stair­case they went, emerg­ing next to the gar­goyle in the dark­en­ing cor­ri­dor. Rid­dle stopped, and so did Har­ry, watch­ing him. Har­ry could tell that Rid­dle was do­ing some se­ri­ous think­ing. He was bit­ing his lip, his fore­head fur­rowed.

Then, as though he had sud­den­ly reached a de­ci­sion, he hur­ried off, Har­ry glid­ing noise­less­ly be­hind him. They didn’t see an­oth­er per­son un­til they reached the en­trance hall, when a tall wiz­ard with long, sweep­ing auburn hair and a beard called to Rid­dle from the mar­ble stair­case.

“What are you do­ing, wan­der­ing around this late, Tom?”

Har­ry gaped at the wiz­ard. He was none oth­er than a fifty-​year-​younger Dum­ble­dore.

“I had to see the head­mas­ter, sir,” said Rid­dle.

“Well, hur­ry off to bed,” said Dum­ble­dore, giv­ing Rid­dle ex­act­ly the kind of pen­etrat­ing stare Har­ry knew so well. “Best not to roam the cor­ri­dors these days. Not since…”

He sighed heav­ily, bade Rid­dle good night, and strode off. Rid­dle watched him walk out of sight and then, mov­ing quick­ly, head­ed straight down the stone steps to the dun­geons, with Har­ry in hot pur­suit.

But to Har­ry’s dis­ap­point­ment, Rid­dle led him not in­to a hid­den pas­sage­way or a se­cret tun­nel but to the very dun­geon in which Har­ry had Po­tions with Snape. The torch­es hadn’t been lit, and when Rid­dle pushed the door al­most closed, Har­ry could on­ly just see him, stand­ing stock-​still by the door, watch­ing the pas­sage out­side.

It felt to Har­ry that they were there for at least an hour. All he could see was the fig­ure of Rid­dle at the door, star­ing through the crack, wait­ing like a stat­ue. And just when Har­ry had stopped feel­ing ex­pec­tant and tense and start­ed wish­ing he could re­turn to the present, he heard some­thing move be­yond the door.

Some­one was creep­ing along the pas­sage. He heard who­ev­er it was pass the dun­geon where he and Rid­dle were hid­den. Rid­dle, qui­et as a shad­ow, edged through the door and fol­lowed, Har­ry tip­toe­ing be­hind him, for­get­ting that he couldn’t be heard.

For per­haps five min­utes they fol­lowed the foot­steps, un­til Rid­dle stopped sud­den­ly, his head in­clined in the di­rec­tion of new nois­es. Har­ry heard a door creak open, and then some­one speak­ing in a hoarse whis­per.

“C’mon…got­ta get yeh out­ta here…C’mon now…in the box…”

There was some­thing fa­mil­iar about that voice…

Rid­dle sud­den­ly jumped around the cor­ner. Har­ry stepped out be­hind him. He could see the dark out­line of a huge boy who was crouch­ing in front of an open door, a very large box next to it.

“Evening, Rubeus,” said Rid­dle sharply.

The boy slammed the door shut and stood up.

“What yer doin’ down here, Tom?”

Rid­dle stepped clos­er.

“It’s all over,” he said. “I’m go­ing to have to turn you in, Rubeus. They’re talk­ing about clos­ing Hog­warts if the at­tacks don’t stop.”

“‘N at d’yeh —”

“I don’t think you meant to kill any­one. But mon­sters don’t make good pets. I sup­pose you just let it out for ex­er­cise and —”

“It nev­er killed no one!” said the large boy, back­ing against the closed door. From be­hind him, Har­ry could hear a fun­ny rustling and click­ing.

“Come on, Rubeus,” said Rid­dle, mov­ing yet clos­er. “The dead girl’s par­ents will be here to­mor­row. The least Hog­warts can do is make sure that the thing that killed their daugh­ter is slaugh­tered…”

“It wasn’t him!” roared the boy, his voice echo­ing in the dark pas­sage. “He wouldn’! He nev­er!”

“Stand aside,” said Rid­dle, draw­ing out his wand.

His spell lit the cor­ri­dor with a sud­den flam­ing light. The door be­hind the large boy flew open with such force it knocked him in­to the wall op­po­site. And out of it came some­thing that made Har­ry let out a long, pierc­ing scream un­heard by any­one.

A vast, low-​slung, hairy body and a tan­gle of black legs; a gleam of many eyes and a pair of ra­zor-​sharp pin­cers — Rid­dle raised his wand again, but he was too late. The thing bowled him over as it scut­tled away, tear­ing up the cor­ri­dor and out of sight. Rid­dle scram­bled to his feet, look­ing af­ter it; he raised his wand, but the huge boy leapt on him, seized his wand, and threw him back down, yelling, “NOOOOOO!”

The scene whirled, the dark­ness be­came com­plete; Har­ry felt him­self falling and, with a crash, he land­ed spread-​ea­gled on his four-​poster in the Gryffind­or dor­mi­to­ry, Rid­dle’s di­ary ly­ing open on his stom­ach.

Be­fore he had had time to re­gain his breath, the dor­mi­to­ry door opened and Ron came in.

“There you are,” he said.

Har­ry sat up. He was sweat­ing and shak­ing.

“What’s up?” said Ron, look­ing at him with con­cern.

“It was Ha­grid, Ron. Ha­grid opened the Cham­ber of Se­crets fifty years ago.”





HP 2 - Harry Potter and The Chamber of Secrets





CHAPTER FOURTEEN




COR­NELIUS FUDGE



Har­ry, Ron, and Hermione had al­ways known that Ha­grid had an un­for­tu­nate lik­ing for large and mon­strous crea­tures. Dur­ing their first year at Hog­warts he had tried to raise a drag­on in his lit­tle wood­en house, and it would be a long time be­fore they for­got the gi­ant, three-​head­ed dog he’d chris­tened “Fluffy.” And if, as a boy, Ha­grid had heard that a mon­ster was hid­den some­where in the cas­tle, Har­ry was sure he’d have gone to any lengths for a glimpse of it. He’d prob­ably thought it was a shame that the mon­ster had been cooped up so long, and thought it de­served the chance to stretch its many legs; Har­ry could just imag­ine the thir­teen-​year-​old Ha­grid try­ing to fit a leash and col­lar on it. But he was equal­ly cer­tain that Ha­grid would nev­er have meant to kill any­body.

Har­ry half wished he hadn’t found out how to work Rid­dle’s di­ary. Again and again Ron and Hermione made him re­count what he’d seen, un­til he was hearti­ly sick of telling them and sick of the long, cir­cu­lar con­ver­sa­tions that fol­lowed.

“Rid­dle might have got the wrong per­son,” said Hermione. “Maybe it was some oth­er mon­ster that was at­tack­ing peo­ple…”

“How many mon­sters d’you think this place can hold?” Ron asked dul­ly.

“We al­ways knew Ha­grid had been ex­pelled,” said Har­ry mis­er­ably. “And the at­tacks must’ve stopped af­ter Ha­grid was kicked out. Oth­er­wise, Rid­dle wouldn’t have got his award.”

Ron tried a dif­fer­ent tack.

“Rid­dle does sound like Per­cy — who asked him to squeal on Ha­grid, any­way?”

“But the mon­ster had killed some­one, Ron,” said Hermione.

“And Rid­dle was go­ing to go back to some Mug­gle or­phan­age if they closed Hog­warts,” said Har­ry. “I don’t blame him for want­ing to stay here…”

“You met Ha­grid down Knock­turn Al­ley, didn’t you, Har­ry?”

“He was buy­ing a Flesh-​Eat­ing Slug Re­pel­lent,” said Har­ry quick­ly.

The three of them fell silent. Af­ter a long pause, Hermione voiced the knot­ti­est ques­tion of all in a hes­itant voice.

“Do you think we should go and ask Ha­grid about it all?”

“That’d be a cheer­ful vis­it,” said Ron. “‘Hel­lo, Ha­grid. Tell us, have you been set­ting any­thing mad and hairy loose in the cas­tle late­ly?’”

In the end, they de­cid­ed that they would not say any­thing to Ha­grid un­less there was an­oth­er at­tack, and as more and more days went by with no whis­per from the dis­em­bod­ied voice, they be­came hope­ful that they would nev­er need to talk to him about why he had been ex­pelled. It was now near­ly four months since Justin and Near­ly Head­less Nick had been Pet­ri­fied, and near­ly ev­ery­body seemed to think that the at­tack­er, who­ev­er it was, had re­tired for good. Peeves had fi­nal­ly got bored of his “Oh, Pot­ter, you rot­ter” song, Ernie Macmil­lan asked Har­ry quite po­lite­ly to pass a buck­et of leap­ing toad­stools in Her­bol­ogy one day, and in March sev­er­al of the Man­drakes threw a loud and rau­cous par­ty in green­house three. This made Pro­fes­sor Sprout very hap­py.

“The mo­ment they start try­ing to move in­to each oth­er’s pots, we’ll know they’re ful­ly ma­ture,” she told Har­ry. “Then we’ll be able to re­vive those poor peo­ple in the hos­pi­tal wing.”



The sec­ond years were giv­en some­thing new to think about dur­ing their East­er hol­idays. The time had come to choose their sub­jects for the third year, a mat­ter that Hermione, at least, took very se­ri­ous­ly.

“…it could af­fect our whole fu­ture,” she told Har­ry and Ron as they pored over lists of new sub­jects, mark­ing them with checks.

“I just want to give up Po­tions,” said Har­ry.

“We can’t,” said Ron gloomi­ly. “We keep all our old sub­jects, or I’d’ve ditched De­fense Against the Dark Arts.”

“But that’s very im­por­tant!” said Hermione, shocked.

“Not the way Lock­hart teach­es it,” said Ron. “I haven’t learned any­thing from him ex­cept not to set pix­ies loose.”

Neville Long­bot­tom had been sent let­ters from all the witch­es and wiz­ards in his fam­ily, all giv­ing him dif­fer­ent ad­vice on what to choose. Con­fused and wor­ried, he sat read­ing the sub­ject lists with his tongue pok­ing out, ask­ing peo­ple whether they thought Arith­man­cy sound­ed more dif­fi­cult than the study of An­cient Runes. Dean Thomas, who, like Har­ry, had grown up with Mug­gles, end­ed up clos­ing his eyes and jab­bing his wand at the list, then pick­ing the sub­jects it land­ed on. Hermione took no­body’s ad­vice but signed up for ev­ery­thing.

Har­ry smiled grim­ly to him­self at the thought of what Un­cle Ver­non and Aunt Petu­nia would say if he tried to dis­cuss his ca­reer in wiz­ardry with them. Not that he didn’t get any guid­ance: Per­cy Weasley was ea­ger to share his ex­pe­ri­ence.

“De­pends where you want to go, Har­ry,” he said. “It’s nev­er too ear­ly to think about the fu­ture, so I’d rec­om­mend Div­ina­tion. Peo­ple say Mug­gle Stud­ies is a soft op­tion, but I per­son­al­ly think wiz­ards should have a thor­ough un­der­stand­ing of the non-​mag­ical com­mu­ni­ty, par­tic­ular­ly if they’re think­ing of work­ing in close con­tact with them — look at my fa­ther, he has to deal with Mug­gle busi­ness all the time. My broth­er Char­lie was al­ways more of an out­door type, so he went for Care of Mag­ical Crea­tures. Play to your strengths, Har­ry.”

But the on­ly thing Har­ry felt he was re­al­ly good at was Quid­ditch. In the end, he chose the same new sub­jects as Ron, feel­ing that if he was lousy at them, at least he’d have some­one friend­ly to help him.



Gryffind­or’s next Quid­ditch match would be against Huf­flepuff. Wood was in­sist­ing on team prac­tices ev­ery night af­ter din­ner, so that Har­ry bare­ly had time for any­thing but Quid­ditch and home­work. How­ev­er, the train­ing ses­sions were get­ting bet­ter, or at least dri­er, and the evening be­fore Sat­ur­day’s match he went up to his dor­mi­to­ry to drop off his broom­stick feel­ing Gryffind­or’s chances for the Quid­ditch cup had nev­er been bet­ter.

But his cheer­ful mood didn’t last long. At the top of the stairs to the dor­mi­to­ry, he met Neville Long­bot­tom, who was look­ing fran­tic.

“Har­ry — I don’t know who did it — I just found —”

Watch­ing Har­ry fear­ful­ly, Neville pushed open the door.

The con­tents of Har­ry’s trunk had been thrown ev­ery­where. His cloak lay ripped on the floor. The bed­clothes had been pulled off his four-​poster and the draw­er had been pulled out of his bed­side cab­inet, the con­tents strewn over the mat­tress.

Har­ry walked over to the bed, open-​mouthed, tread­ing on a few loose pages of Trav­els with Trolls. As he and Neville pulled the blan­kets back on­to his bed, Ron, Dean, and Sea­mus came in. Dean swore loud­ly.

“What hap­pened, Har­ry?”

“No idea,” said Har­ry. But Ron was ex­am­in­ing Har­ry’s robes. All the pock­ets were hang­ing out.

“Some­one’s been look­ing for some­thing,” said Ron. “Is there any­thing miss­ing?”

Har­ry start­ed to pick up all his things and throw them in­to his trunk. It was on­ly as he threw the last of the Lock­hart books back in­to it that he re­al­ized what wasn’t there.

“Rid­dle’s di­ary’s gone,” he said in an un­der­tone to Ron.

“What?”

Har­ry jerked his head to­ward the dor­mi­to­ry door and Ron fol­lowed him out. They hur­ried down to the Gryffind­or com­mon room, which was half-​emp­ty, and joined Hermione, who was sit­ting alone, read­ing a book called An­cient Runes Made Easy.

Hermione looked aghast at the news.

“But — on­ly a Gryffind­or could have stolen — no­body else knows our pass­word —”

“Ex­act­ly,” said Har­ry.



They woke the next day to bril­liant sun­shine and a light, re­fresh­ing breeze.

“Per­fect Quid­ditch con­di­tions!” said Wood en­thu­si­as­ti­cal­ly at the Gryffind­or ta­ble, load­ing the team’s plates with scram­bled eggs. “Har­ry, buck up there, you need a de­cent break­fast.”

Har­ry had been star­ing down the packed Gryffind­or ta­ble, won­der­ing if the new own­er of Rid­dle’s di­ary was right in front of his eyes. Hermione had been urg­ing him to re­port the rob­bery, but Har­ry didn’t like the idea. He’d have to tell a teach­er all about the di­ary, and how many peo­ple knew why Ha­grid had been ex­pelled fifty years ago? He didn’t want to be the one who brought it all up again.

As he left the Great Hall with Ron and Hermione to go and col­lect his Quid­ditch things, an­oth­er very se­ri­ous wor­ry was added to Har­ry’s grow­ing list. He had just set foot on the mar­ble stair­case when he heard it yet again.

“Kill this time…let me rip…tear…”

He shout­ed aloud and Ron and Hermione both jumped away from him in alarm.

“The voice!” said Har­ry, -look­ing over his shoul­der. “I just heard it again — didn’t you?”

Ron shook his head, wide-​eyed. Hermione, how­ev­er, clapped a hand to her fore­head.

“Har­ry — I think I’ve just un­der­stood some­thing! I’ve got to go to the li­brary!”

And she sprint­ed away, up the stairs.

“What does she un­der­stand?” said Har­ry dis­tract­ed­ly, still look­ing around, try­ing to tell where the voice had come from.

“Loads more than I do,” said Ron, shak­ing his head.

“But why’s she got to go to the li­brary?”

“Be­cause that’s what Hermione does,” said Ron, shrug­ging. “When in doubt, go to the li­brary.”

Har­ry stood, ir­res­olute, try­ing to catch the voice again, but peo­ple were now emerg­ing from the Great Hall be­hind him, talk­ing loud­ly, ex­it­ing through the front doors on their way to the Quid­ditch pitch.

“You’d bet­ter get mov­ing,” said Ron. “It’s near­ly eleven — the match —”

Har­ry raced up to Gryffind­or Tow­er, col­lect­ed his Nim­bus Two Thou­sand, and joined the large crowd swarm­ing across the grounds, but his mind was still in the cas­tle along with the bod­iless voice, and as he pulled on his scar­let robes in the lock­er room, his on­ly com­fort was that ev­ery­one was now out­side to watch the game.

The teams walked on­to the field to tu­mul­tuous ap­plause. Oliv­er Wood took off for a warm-​up flight around the goal posts; Madam Hooch re­leased the balls. The Huf­flepuffs, who played in ca­nary yel­low, were stand­ing in a hud­dle, hav­ing a last-​minute dis­cus­sion of tac­tics.

Har­ry was just mount­ing his broom when Pro­fes­sor McG­ona­gall came half march­ing, half run­ning across the pitch, car­ry­ing an enor­mous pur­ple mega­phone.

Har­ry’s heart dropped like a stone.

“This match has been can­celled,” Pro­fes­sor McG­ona­gall called through the mega­phone, ad­dress­ing the packed sta­di­um. There were boos and shouts. Oliv­er Wood, look­ing dev­as­tat­ed, land­ed and ran to­ward Pro­fes­sor McG­ona­gall with­out get­ting off his broom­stick.

“But, Pro­fes­sor!” he shout­ed. “We’ve got to play — the cup — Gryffind­or —”

Pro­fes­sor McG­ona­gall ig­nored him and con­tin­ued to shout through her mega­phone:

“All stu­dents are to make their way back to the House com­mon rooms, where their Heads of Hous­es will give them fur­ther in­for­ma­tion. As quick­ly as you can, please!”

Then she low­ered the mega­phone and beck­oned Har­ry over to her.

“Pot­ter, I think you’d bet­ter come with me….”

Won­der­ing how she could pos­si­bly sus­pect him this time, Har­ry saw Ron de­tach him­self from the com­plain­ing crowd; he came run­ning up to them as they set off to­ward the cas­tle. To Har­ry’s sur­prise, Pro­fes­sor McG­ona­gall didn’t ob­ject.

“Yes, per­haps you’d bet­ter come, too, Weasley…”

Some of the stu­dents swarm­ing around them were grum­bling about the match be­ing can­celed; oth­ers looked wor­ried. Har­ry and Ron fol­lowed Pro­fes­sor McG­ona­gall back in­to the school and up the mar­ble stair­case. But they weren’t tak­en to any­body’s of­fice this time.

“This will be a bit of a shock,” said Pro­fes­sor McG­ona­gall in a sur­pris­ing­ly gen­tle voice as they ap­proached the in­fir­mary. “There has been an­oth­er at­tack … an­oth­er dou­ble at­tack.”

Har­ry’s in­sides did a hor­ri­ble som­er­sault. Pro­fes­sor McG­ona­gall pushed the door open and he and Ron en­tered. . Madam Pom­frey was bend­ing over a fifth-​year girl with long, curly hair. Har­ry rec­og­nized her as the Raven­claw they’d ac­ci­den­tal­ly asked for di­rec­tions to the Slytherin com­mon room. And on the bed next to her was —

“Hermione!” Ron groaned.

Hermione lay ut­ter­ly still, her eyes open and glassy.

“They were found near the li­brary,” said Pro­fes­sor McG­ona­gall. “I don’t sup­pose ei­ther of you can ex­plain this? It was on the floor next to them…”

She was hold­ing up a small, cir­cu­lar mir­ror.

Har­ry and Ron shook their heads, both star­ing at Hermione.

“I will es­cort you back to Gryffind­or Tow­er,” said Pro­fes­sor McG­ona­gall heav­ily. “I need to ad­dress the stu­dents in any case.”



“All stu­dents will re­turn to their House com­mon rooms by six o’clock in the evening. No stu­dent is to leave the dor­mi­to­ries af­ter that time. You will be es­cort­ed to each les­son by a teach­er. No stu­dent is to use the bath­room un­ac­com­pa­nied by a teach­er. All fur­ther Quid­ditch train­ing and match­es are to be post­poned. There will be no more evening ac­tiv­ities.”

The Gryffind­ors packed in­side the com­mon room lis­tened to Pro­fes­sor McG­ona­gall in si­lence. She rolled up the parch­ment from which she had been read­ing and said in a some­what choked voice, “I need hard­ly add that I have rarely been so dis­tressed. It is like­ly that the school will be closed un­less the cul­prit be­hind these at­tacks is caught. I would urge any­one who thinks they might know any­thing about them to come for­ward.”

She climbed some­what awk­ward­ly out of the por­trait hole, and the Gryffind­ors be­gan talk­ing im­me­di­ate­ly.

“That’s two Gryffind­ors down, not count­ing a Gryffind­or ghost, one Raven­claw, and one Huf­flepuff, “ said the Weasley twins’ friend Lee Jor­dan, count­ing on his fin­gers. “Haven’t any of the teach­ers no­ticed that the Slytherins are all safe? Isn’t it ob­vi­ous all this stuff’s com­ing from Slytherin? The Heir of Slytherin, the mon­ster of Slytherin — why don’t they just chuck all the Slytherins out?” he roared, to nods and scat­tered ap­plause.

Per­cy Weasley was sit­ting in a chair be­hind Lee, but for once he didn’t seem keen to make his views heard. He was look­ing pale and stunned.

“Per­cy’s in shock,” George told Har­ry qui­et­ly. “That Raven­claw girl — Pene­lope Clear­wa­ter — she’s a pre­fect. I don’t think he thought the mon­ster would dare at­tack a pre­fect.”

But Har­ry was on­ly half-​lis­ten­ing. He didn’t seem to be able to get rid of the pic­ture of Hermione, ly­ing on the hos­pi­tal bed as though carved out of stone. And if the cul­prit wasn’t caught soon, he was look­ing at a life­time back with the Durs­leys. Tom Rid­dle had turned Ha­grid in be­cause he was faced with the prospect of a Mug­gle or­phan­age if the school closed. Har­ry now knew ex­act­ly how he had felt.

“What’re we go­ing to do?” said Ron qui­et­ly in Har­ry’s ear. “D’you think they sus­pect Ha­grid?”

“We’ve got to go and talk to him,” said Har­ry, mak­ing up his mind. “I can’t be­lieve it’s him this time, but if he set the mon­ster loose last time he’ll know how to get in­side the Cham­ber of Se­crets, and that’s a start.”

“But McG­ona­gall said we’ve got to stay in our tow­er un­less we’re in class —”

“I think,” said Har­ry, more qui­et­ly still, “it’s time to get my dad’s old cloak out again.”



Har­ry had in­her­it­ed just one thing from his fa­ther: a long and sil­very In­vis­ibil­ity Cloak. It was their on­ly chance of sneak­ing out of the school to vis­it Ha­grid with­out any­one know­ing about it. They went to bed at the usu­al time, wait­ed un­til Neville, Dean, and Sea­mus had stopped dis­cussing the Cham­ber of Se­crets and fi­nal­ly fall­en asleep, then got up, dressed again, and threw the cloak over them­selves.

The jour­ney through the dark and de­sert­ed cas­tle cor­ri­dors wasn’t en­joy­able. Har­ry, who had wan­dered the cas­tle at night sev­er­al times be­fore, had nev­er seen it so crowd­ed af­ter sun­set. Teach­ers, pre­fects, and ghosts were march­ing the cor­ri­dors in pairs, star­ing around for any un­usu­al ac­tiv­ity. Their In­vis­ibil­ity Cloak didn’t stop them mak­ing any noise, and there was a par­tic­ular­ly tense mo­ment when Ron stubbed his toe on­ly yards from the spot where Snape stood stand­ing guard. Thank­ful­ly, Snape sneezed at al­most ex­act­ly the mo­ment Ron swore. It was with re­lief that they reached the oak front doors and eased them open.

It was a clear, star­ry night. They hur­ried to­ward the lit win­dows of Ha­grid’s house and pulled off the cloak on­ly when they were right out­side his front door.

Sec­onds af­ter they had knocked, Ha­grid flung it open. They found them­selves face-​to-​face with him aim­ing a cross­bow at them. Fang the boarhound barked loud­ly be­hind him.

“Oh,” he said, low­er­ing the weapon and star­ing at them. “What’re you two doin’ here?”

“What’s that for?” said Har­ry, point­ing at the cross­bow as they stepped in­side.

“Noth­in’ — noth­in’ —” Ha­grid mut­tered. “I’ve bin ex­pectin’ — doesn’ mat­ter — Sit down — I’ll make tea —”

He hard­ly seemed to know what he was do­ing. He near­ly ex­tin­guished the fire, spilling wa­ter from the ket­tle on it, and then smashed the teapot with a ner­vous jerk of his mas­sive hand.

“Are you okay, Ha­grid?” said Har­ry. “Did you hear about Hermione?”

“Oh, I heard, all righ’,” said Ha­grid, a slight break in his voice.

He kept glanc­ing ner­vous­ly at the win­dows. He poured them both large mugs of boil­ing wa­ter (he had for­got­ten to add tea bags) and was just putting a slab of fruit­cake on a plate when there was a loud knock on the door.

Ha­grid dropped the fruit­cake. Har­ry and Ron ex­changed pan­ic­strick­en looks, then threw the In­vis­ibil­ity Cloak back over them­selves and re­treat­ed in­to a cor­ner. Ha­grid checked that they were hid­den, seized his cross­bow, and flung open his door once more.

“Good evening, Ha­grid.”

It was Dum­ble­dore. He en­tered, look­ing dead­ly se­ri­ous, and was fol­lowed by a sec­ond, very odd-​look­ing man.

The stranger had rum­pled gray hair and an anx­ious ex­pres­sion, and was wear­ing a strange mix­ture of clothes: a pin­striped suit, a scar­let tie, a long black cloak, and point­ed pur­ple boots. Un­der his arm he car­ried a lime-​green bowler.

“That’s Dad’s boss!” Ron breathed. “Cor­nelius Fudge, the Min­is­ter of Mag­ic!”

Har­ry el­bowed Ron hard to make him shut up.

Ha­grid had gone pale and sweaty. He dropped in­to one of his chairs and looked from Dum­ble­dore to Cor­nelius Fudge.

“Bad busi­ness, Ha­grid,” said Fudge in rather clipped tones. “Very bad busi­ness. Had to come. Four at­tacks on Mug­gle-​borns. Things’ve gone far enough. Min­istry’s got to act.”

“I nev­er,” said Ha­grid, look­ing im­plor­ing­ly at Dum­ble­dore. “You know I nev­er, Pro­fes­sor Dum­ble­dore, sir —”

“I want it un­der­stood, Cor­nelius, that Ha­grid has my full con­fi­dence,” said Dum­ble­dore, frown­ing at Fudge.

“Look, Al­bus,” said Fudge, un­com­fort­ably. “Ha­grid’s record’s against him. Min­istry’s got to do some­thing — the school gov­er­nors have been in touch —”

“Yet again, Cor­nelius, I tell you that tak­ing Ha­grid away will not help in the slight­est,” said Dum­ble­dore. His blue eyes were full of a fire Har­ry had nev­er seen be­fore.

“Look at it from my point of view,” said Fudge, fid­get­ing with his bowler. “I’m un­der a lot of pres­sure. Got to be seen to be do­ing some­thing. If it turns out it wasn’t Ha­grid, he’ll be back and no more said. But I’ve got to take him. Got to. Wouldn’t be do­ing my du­ty —”

“Take me?” said Ha­grid, who was trem­bling. “Take me where?”

“For a short stretch on­ly,” said Fudge, not meet­ing Ha­grid’s eyes. “Not a pun­ish­ment, Ha­grid, more a pre­cau­tion. If some­one else is caught, you’ll be let out with a full apol­ogy —”

“Not Azk­aban?” croaked Ha­grid.

Be­fore Fudge could an­swer, there was an­oth­er loud rap on the door.

Dum­ble­dore an­swered it. It was Har­ry’s turn for an el­bow in the ribs; he’d let out an au­di­ble gasp.

Mr. Lu­cius Mal­foy strode in­to Ha­grid’s hut, swathed in a long black trav­el­ing cloak, smil­ing a cold and sat­is­fied smile. Fang start­ed to growl.

“Al­ready here, Fudge,” he said ap­prov­ing­ly. “Good, good…”

“What’re you doin’ here?” said Ha­grid fu­ri­ous­ly. “Get out­ta my house!”

“My dear man, please be­lieve me, I have no plea­sure at all in be­ing in­side your — er — d’you call this a house?” said Lu­cius Mal­foy, sneer­ing as he looked around the small cab­in. “I sim­ply called at the school and was told that the head­mas­ter was here.”

“And what ex­act­ly did you want with me, Lu­cius?” said Dum­ble­dore. He spoke po­lite­ly, but the fire was still blaz­ing in his blue eyes.

“Dread­ful thing, Dum­ble­dore,” said Mal­foy lazi­ly, tak­ing out a long roll of parch­ment, “but the gov­er­nors feel it’s time for you to step aside. This is an Or­der of Sus­pen­sion — you’ll find all twelve sig­na­tures on it. I’m afraid we feel you’re los­ing your touch. How many at­tacks have there been now? Two more this af­ter­noon, wasn’t it? At this rate, there’ll be no Mug­gle-​borns left at Hog­warts, and we all know what an aw­ful loss that would be to the school.”

“Oh, now, see here, Lu­cius,” said Fudge, look­ing alarmed, “Dum­ble­dore sus­pend­ed — no, no — last thing we want just now.”

“The ap­point­ment — or sus­pen­sion — of the head­mas­ter is a mat­ter for the gov­er­nors, Fudge,” said Mr. Mal­foy smooth­ly. “And as Dum­ble­dore has failed to stop these at­tacks —”

“See here, Mal­foy, if Dum­ble­dore can’t stop them,” said Fudge, whose up­per lip was sweat­ing now, “I mean to say, who can?”

“That re­mains to be seen,” said Mr. Mal­foy with a nasty smile. “But as all twelve of us have vot­ed —”

Ha­grid leapt to his feet, his shag­gy black head graz­ing the ceil­ing.

‘An’ how many did yeh have ter threat­en an’ black­mail be­fore they agreed, Mal­foy, eh?” he roared.

“Dear, dear, you know, that tem­per of yours will lead you in­to trou­ble one of these days, Ha­grid,” said Mr. Mal­foy. “I would ad­vise you not to shout at the Azk­aban guards like that. They won’t like it at all.”

“Yeh can’ take Dum­ble­dore!” yelled Ha­grid, mak­ing Fang the boarhound cow­er and whim­per in his bas­ket. “Take him away, an’ the Mug­gle-​borns won’ stand a chance! There’ll be killin’ next!”

“Calm your­self, Ha­grid,” said Dum­ble­dore sharply. He looked at Lu­cius Mal­foy.

“If the gov­er­nors want my re­moval, Lu­cius, I shall of course step aside —”

“But —” stut­tered Fudge.

“No!” growled Ha­grid.

Dum­ble­dore had not tak­en his bright blue eyes off Lu­cius Mal­foy’s cold gray ones.

“How­ev­er,” said Dum­ble­dore, speak­ing very slow­ly and clear­ly so that none of them could miss a word, “you will find that I will on­ly tru­ly have left this school when none here are loy­al to me…Help will al­ways be giv­en at Hog­warts to those who ask for it.”

For a sec­ond, Har­ry was al­most sure Dum­ble­dore’s eyes flick­ered to­ward the cor­ner where he and Ron were hid­den.

“Ad­mirable sen­ti­ments,” said Mal­foy, bow­ing. “We shall all miss your — er — high­ly in­di­vid­ual way of run­ning things, Al­bus, and on­ly hope your suc­ces­sor willl man­age to pre­vent any — ah — killins.”

He strode to the cab­in door, opened it, and bowed Dum­ble­dore out. Fudge, fid­dling with his bowler, wait­ed for Ha­grid to go ahead of him, but Ha­grid stood his ground, took a deep breath, and said care­ful­ly, “If any­one want­ed ter find out some stuff, all they’d have ter do would be ter fol­low the spi­ders. That’d lead ‘em right. That’s all I’m sayin’.”

Fudge stared at him in amaze­ment.

“All right, I’m comin’, said Ha­grid, pulling on his mole­skin over­coat. But as he was about to fol­low Fudge through the door, he stopped again and said loud­ly, “An’ some­one’ll need ter feed Fang while I’m away.”

The door banged shut and Ron pulled off the In­vis­ibil­ity Cloak.

“We’re in trou­ble now,” Ron said hoarse­ly. “No Dum­ble­dore. They might as well close the school tonight. There’ll be an at­tack a day with him gone.”

Fang start­ed howl­ing, scratch­ing at the closed door.





CAPTER FIF­TEEN



AR­AGOG



Sum­mer was creep­ing over the grounds around the cas­tle; sky and lake alike turned peri­win­kle blue and flow­ers large as cab­bages burst in­to bloom in the green­hous­es. But with no Ha­grid vis­ible from the cas­tle win­dows, strid­ing the grounds with Fang at his heels, the scene didn’t look right to Har­ry; no bet­ter, in fact, than the in­side of the cas­tle, where things were so hor­ri­bly wrong.

Har­ry and Ron had tried to vis­it Hermione, but vis­itors were now barred from the hos­pi­tal wing.

“We’re tak­ing no more chances,” Madam Pom­frey told them severe­ly through a crack in the in­fir­mary door. “No, I’m sor­ry, there’s ev­ery chance the at­tack­er might come back to fin­ish these peo­ple off….”

With Dum­ble­dore gone, fear had spread as nev­er be­fore, so that the sun warm­ing the cas­tle walls out­side seemed to stop at the mul­lioned win­dows. There was bare­ly a face to be seen in the school that didn’t look wor­ried and tense, and any laugh­ter that rang through the cor­ri­dors sound­ed shrill and un­nat­ural and was quick­ly sti­fled.

Har­ry con­stant­ly re­peat­ed Dum­ble­dore’s fi­nal words to him­self “I will on­ly tru­ly have left this school when none here are loy­al to me….Help will al­ways be giv­en at Hog­warts to those who ask for it.” But what good were these words? Who ex­act­ly were they sup­posed to ask for help, when ev­ery­one was just as con­fused and scared as they were?

Ha­grid’s hint about the spi­ders was far eas­ier to un­der­stand. The trou­ble was, there didn’t seem to be a sin­gle spi­der left in the cas­tle to fol­low. Har­ry looked ev­ery­where he went, helped (rather re­luc­tant­ly) by Ron. They were ham­pered, of course, by the fact that they weren’t al­lowed to wan­der off on their own but had to move around the cas­tle in a pack with the oth­er Gryffind­ors. Most of their fel­low stu­dents seemed glad that they were be­ing shep­herd­ed from class to class by teach­ers, but Har­ry found it very irk­some.

One per­son, how­ev­er, seemed to be thor­ough­ly en­joy­ing the at­mo­sphere of ter­ror and sus­pi­cion. Dra­co Mal­foy was strut­ting around the school as though he had just been ap­point­ed Head Boy. Har­ry didn’t re­al­ize what he was so pleased about un­til the Po­tions les­son about two weeks af­ter Dum­ble­dore and Ha­grid had left, when, sit­ting right be­hind Mal­foy, Har­ry over­heard him gloat­ing to Crabbe and Goyle.

“I al­ways thought Fa­ther might be the one who got rid of Dum­ble­dore,” he said, not trou­bling to keep his voice down. “I told you he thinks Dum­ble­dore’s the worst head­mas­ter the school’s ev­er had. Maybe we’ll get a de­cent head­mas­ter now. Some­one who won’t want the Cham­ber of Se­crets closed. McG­ona­gall won’t last long, she’s on­ly fill­ing in….”

Snape swept past Har­ry, mak­ing no com­ment about Hermione’s emp­ty seat and caul­dron.

“Sir,” said Mal­foy loud­ly. “Sir, why don’t you ap­ply for the head­mas­ter’s job?”

“Now, now, Mal­foy,” said Snape, though he couldn’t sup­press a thin-​lipped smile. “Pro­fes­sor Dum­ble­dore has on­ly been sus­pend­ed by the gov­er­nors. I dare­say he’ll be back with us soon enough.”

“Yeah, right,” said Mal­foy, smirk­ing. “I ex­pect you’d have Fa­ther’s vote, sir, if you want­ed to ap­ply for the job — I’ll tell Fa­ther you’re the best teach­er here, sir —”

Snape smirked as he swept off around the dun­geon, for­tu­nate­ly not spot­ting Sea­mus Finni­gan, who was pre­tend­ing to vom­it in­to his caul­dron.

“I’m quite sur­prised the Mud­bloods haven’t all packed their bags by now,” Mal­foy went on. “Bet you five Galleons the next one dies. Pity it wasn’t Granger —”

The bell rang at that mo­ment, which was lucky; at Mal­foy’s last words, Ron had leapt off his stool, and in the scram­ble to col­lect bags and books, his at­tempts to reach Mal­foy went un­no­ticed.

“Let me at him,” Ron growled as Har­ry and Dean hung on­to his arms. “I don’t care, I don’t need my wand, I’m go­ing to kill him with my bare hands —”

“Hur­ry up, I’ve got to take you all to Her­bol­ogy,” barked Snape over the class’s heads, and off they marched, with Har­ry, Ron, and Dean bring­ing up the rear, Ron still try­ing to get loose. It was on­ly safe to let go of him when Snape had seen them out of the cas­tle and they were mak­ing their way across the veg­etable patch to­ward the green­hous­es.

The Her­bol­ogy class was very sub­dued; there were now two miss­ing from their num­ber, Justin and Hermione.

Pro­fes­sor Sprout set them all to work prun­ing the Abyssini­an Shriv­elfigs. Har­ry went to tip an arm­ful of with­ered stalks on­to the com­post heap and found him­self face-​to-​face with Ernie Macmil­lan. Ernie took a deep breath and said, very for­mal­ly, “I just want to say, Har­ry, that I’m sor­ry I ev­er sus­pect­ed you. I know you’d nev­er at­tack Hermione Granger, and I apol­ogize for all the stuff I said. We’re all in the same boat now, and, well —”

He held out a pudgy hand, and Har­ry shook it.

Ernie and his friend Han­nah came to work at the same Shriv­elfig as Har­ry and Ron.

“That Dra­co Mal­foy char­ac­ter,” said Ernie, break­ing off dead twigs, “he seems very pleased about all this, doesn’t he? D’you know, I think he might be Slytherin’s heir.”

“That’s clever of you,” said Ron, who didn’t seem to have for­giv­en Ernie as read­ily as Har­ry.

“Do you think it’s Mal­foy, Har­ry?” Ernie asked.

“No,” said Har­ry, so firm­ly that Ernie and Han­nah stared.

A sec­ond lat­er, Har­ry spot­ted some­thing.

Sev­er­al large spi­ders were scut­tling over the ground on the oth­er side of the glass, mov­ing in an un­nat­ural­ly straight line as though tak­ing the short­est route to a pre­ar­ranged meet­ing. Har­ry hit Ron over the hand with his prun­ing shears.

“Ouch! What’re you —”

Har­ry point­ed out the spi­ders, fol­low­ing their progress with his eyes screwed up against the sun.

“Oh, yeah,” said Ron, try­ing, and fail­ing, to look pleased. “But we can’t fol­low them now —”

Ernie and Han­nah were lis­ten­ing cu­ri­ous­ly.

Har­ry’s eyes nar­rowed as he fo­cused on the spi­ders. If they pur­sued their fixed course, there could be no doubt about where they would end up.

“Looks like they’re head­ing for the For­bid­den For­est….”

And Ron looked even un­hap­pi­er about that.

At the end of the les­son Pro­fes­sor Sprout es­cort­ed the class to their De­fense Against the Dark Arts les­son. Har­ry and Ron lagged be­hind the oth­ers so they could talk out of earshot.

“We’ll have to use the In­vis­ibil­ity Cloak again,” Har­ry told Ron. “We can take Fang with us. He’s used to go­ing in­to the for­est with Ha­grid, he might be some help.”

“Right,” said Ron, who was twirling his wand ner­vous­ly in his fin­gers. “Er — aren’t there — aren’t there sup­posed to be were­wolves in the for­est?” he added as they took their usu­al places at the back of Lock­hart’s class­room.

Pre­fer­ring not to an­swer that ques­tion, Har­ry said, “There are good things in there, too. The cen­taurs are all right, and the uni­corns…”

Ron had nev­er been in­to the For­bid­den For­est be­fore. Har­ry had en­tered it on­ly once and had hoped nev­er to do so again.

Lock­hart bound­ed in­to the room and the class stared at him. Ev­ery oth­er teach­er in the place was look­ing grim­mer than usu­al, but Lock­hart ap­peared noth­ing short of buoy­ant.

“Come now,” he cried, beam­ing around him. “Why all these long faces?”

Peo­ple swapped ex­as­per­at­ed looks, but no­body an­swered.

“Don’t you peo­ple re­al­ize,” said Lock­hart, speak­ing slow­ly, as though they were all a bit dim, “the dan­ger has passed! The cul­prit has been tak­en away —”

“Says who?” said Dean Thomas loud­ly.

“My dear young man, the Min­is­ter of Mag­ic wouldn’t have tak­en Ha­grid if he hadn’t been one hun­dred per­cent sure that he was guilty,” said Lock­hart, in the tone of some­one ex­plain­ing that one and one made two.

“Oh, yes he would,” said Ron, even more loud­ly than Dean.

“I flat­ter my­self I know a touch more about Ha­grid’s ar­rest than you do, Mr. Weasley,” said Lock­hart in a self-​sat­is­fied tone.

Ron start­ed to say that he didn’t think so, some­how, but stopped in mid­sen­tence when Har­ry kicked him hard un­der the desk.

“We weren’t there, re­mem­ber?” Har­ry mut­tered.

But Lock­hart’s dis­gust­ing cheer­iness, his hints that he had al­ways thought Ha­grid was no good, his con­fi­dence that the whole busi­ness was now at an end, ir­ri­tat­ed Har­ry so much that he yearned to throw Gadding with Ghouls right in Lock­hart’s stupid face. In­stead he con­tent­ed him­self with scrawl­ing a note to Ron: Let’s do it tonight.

Ron read the mes­sage, swal­lowed hard, and looked side­ways at the emp­ty seat usu­al­ly filled by Hermione. The sight seemed to stiff­en his re­solve, and he nod­ded.



The Gryffind­or com­mon room was al­ways very crowd­ed these days, be­cause from six o’clock on­ward the Gryffind­ors had nowhere else to go. They al­so had plen­ty to talk about, with the re­sult that the com­mon room of­ten didn’t emp­ty un­til past mid­night.

Har­ry went to get the In­vis­ibil­ity Cloak out of his trunk right af­ter din­ner, and spent the evening sit­ting on it, wait­ing for the room to clear. Fred and George chal­lenged Har­ry and Ron to a few games of Ex­plod­ing Snap, and Gin­ny sat watch­ing them, very sub­dued in Hermione’s usu­al chair. Har­ry and Ron kept los­ing on pur­pose, try­ing to fin­ish the games quick­ly, but even so, it was well past mid­night when Fred, George, and Gin­ny fi­nal­ly went to bed.

Har­ry and Ron wait­ed for the dis­tant sounds of two dor­mi­to­ry doors clos­ing be­fore seiz­ing the cloak, throw­ing it over them­selves, and climb­ing through the por­trait hole.

It was an­oth­er dif­fi­cult jour­ney through the cas­tle, dodg­ing all the teach­ers. At last they reached the en­trance hall, slid back the lock on the oak front doors, squeezed be­tween them, try­ing to stop any creak­ing, and stepped out in­to the moon­lit grounds.

“’Course,” said Ron abrupt­ly as they strode across the black grass, “we might get to the for­est and find there’s noth­ing to fol­low. Those spi­ders might not’ve been go­ing there at all. I know it looked like they were mov­ing in that sort of gen­er­al di­rec­tion, but…”

His voice trailed away hope­ful­ly.

They reached Ha­grid’s house, sad and sor­ry-​look­ing with its blank win­dows. When Har­ry pushed the door open, Fang went mad with joy at the sight of them. Wor­ried he might wake ev­ery­one at the cas­tle with his deep, boom­ing barks, they hasti­ly fed him trea­cle fudge from a tin on the man­tel­piece, which glued his teeth to­geth­er.

Har­ry left the In­vis­ibil­ity Cloak on Ha­grid’s ta­ble. There would be no need for it in the pitch-​dark for­est.

“C’mon, Fang, we’re go­ing for a walk,” said Har­ry, pat­ting his leg, and Fang bound­ed hap­pi­ly out of the house be­hind them, dashed to the edge of the for­est, and lift­ed his leg against a large sycamore tree.

Har­ry took out his wand, mur­mured, “Lu­mos!” and a tiny light ap­peared at the end of it, just enough to let them watch the path for signs of spi­ders.

“Good think­ing,” said Ron. “I’d light mine, too, but you know — it’d prob­ably blow up or some­thing….”

Har­ry tapped Ron on the shoul­der, point­ing at the grass. Two soli­tary spi­ders were hur­ry­ing away from the wan­dlight in­to the shade of the trees.

“Okay,” Ron sighed as though re­signed to the worst, “I’m ready. Let’s go.”

So, with Fang scam­per­ing around them, sniff­ing tree roots and leaves, they en­tered the for­est. By the glow of Har­ry’s wand, they fol­lowed the steady trick­le of spi­ders mov­ing along the path. They walked be­hind them for about twen­ty min­utes, not speak­ing, lis­ten­ing hard for nois­es oth­er than break­ing twigs and rustling leaves. Then, when the trees had be­come thick­er than ev­er, so that the stars over­head were no longer vis­ible, and Har­ry’s wand shone alone in the sea of dark, they saw their spi­der guides leav­ing the path.

Har­ry paused, try­ing to see where the spi­ders were go­ing, but ev­ery­thing out­side his lit­tle sphere of light was pitch-​black. He had nev­er been this deep in­to the for­est be­fore. He could vivid­ly re­mem­ber Ha­grid ad­vis­ing him not to leave the for­est path last time he’d been in here. But Ha­grid was miles away now, prob­ably sit­ting in a cell in Azk­aban, and he had al­so said to fol­low the spi­ders.

Some­thing wet touched Har­ry’s hand and he jumped back­ward, crush­ing Ron’s foot, but it was on­ly Fang’s nose.

“What d’you reck­on?” Har­ry said to Ron, whose eyes he could just make out, re­flect­ing the light from his wand.

“We’ve come this far,” said Ron.

So they fol­lowed the dart­ing shad­ows of the spi­ders in­to the trees. They couldn’t move very quick­ly now; there were tree roots and stumps in their way, bare­ly vis­ible in the near black­ness. Har­ry could feel Fang’s hot breath on his hand. More than once, they had to stop, so that Har­ry could crouch down and find the spi­ders in the wan­dlight.

They walked for what seemed like at least half an hour, their robes snag­ging on low-​slung branch­es and bram­bles. Af­ter a while, they no­ticed that the ground seemed to be slop­ing down­ward, though the trees were as thick as ev­er.

Then Fang sud­den­ly let loose a great, echo­ing bark, mak­ing both Har­ry and Ron jump out of their skins.

“What?” said Ron loud­ly, look­ing around in­to the pitch-​dark, and grip­ping Har­ry’s el­bow very hard.

“There’s some­thing mov­ing over there,” Har­ry breathed. “Lis­ten…sounds like some­thing big….”

They lis­tened. Some dis­tance to their right, the some­thing big was snap­ping branch­es as it carved a path through the trees.

“Oh, no,” said Ron. “Oh, no, oh, no, oh —”

“Shut up,” said Har­ry fran­ti­cal­ly. “It’ll hear you.”

“Hear me?” said Ron in an un­nat­ural­ly high voice. “It’s al­ready heard Fang!”

The dark­ness seemed to be press­ing on their eye­balls as they stood, ter­ri­fied, wait­ing. There was a strange rum­bling noise and then si­lence.

“What d’you think it’s do­ing?” said Har­ry.

“Prob­ably get­ting ready to pounce,” said Ron.

They wait­ed, shiv­er­ing, hard­ly dar­ing to move.

“D’you think it’s gone?” Har­ry whis­pered.

“Dun­no —”

Then, to their right, came a sud­den blaze of light, so bright in the dark­ness that both of them flung up their hands to shield their eyes. Fang yelped and tried to run, but got lodged in a tan­gle of thorns and yelped even loud­er.

“Har­ry!” Ron shout­ed, his voice break­ing with re­lief “Har­ry, it’s our car!”

“What?”

“Come on!”

Har­ry blun­dered af­ter Ron to­ward the light, stum­bling and trip­ping, and a mo­ment lat­er they had emerged in­to a clear­ing.

Mr. Weasley’s car was stand­ing, emp­ty, in the mid­dle of a cir­cle of thick trees un­der a roof of dense branch­es, its head­lights ablaze. As Ron walked, open-​mouthed, to­ward it, it moved slow­ly to­ward him, ex­act­ly like a large, turquoise dog greet­ing its own­er.

“It’s been here all the time!” said Ron de­light­ed­ly, walk­ing around the car. “Look at it. The for­est’s turned it wild….”

The sides of the car were scratched and smeared with mud. Ap­par­ent­ly it had tak­en to trundling around the for­est on its own. Fang didn’t seem at all keen on it; he kept close to Har­ry, who could feel him quiv­er­ing. His breath­ing slow­ing down again, Har­ry stuffed his wand back in­to his robes.

“And we thought it was go­ing to at­tack us!” said Ron, lean­ing against the car and pat­ting it. “I won­dered where it had gone!”

Har­ry squint­ed around on the flood­lit ground for signs of more spi­ders, but they had all scut­tled away from the glare of the head­lights.

“We’ve lost the trail,” he said. “C’mon, let’s go and find them.”

Ron didn’t speak. He didn’t move. His eyes were fixed on a point some ten feet above the for­est floor, right be­hind Har­ry. His face was livid with ter­ror.

Har­ry didn’t even have time to turn around. There was a loud click­ing noise and sud­den­ly he felt some­thing long and hairy seize him around the mid­dle and lift him off the ground, so that he was hang­ing face­down. Strug­gling, ter­ri­fied, he heard more click­ing, and saw Ron’s legs leave the ground, too, heard Fang whim­per­ing and howl­ing — next mo­ment, he was be­ing swept away in­to the dark trees.

Head hang­ing, Har­ry saw that what had hold of him was march­ing on six im­mense­ly long, hairy legs, the front two clutch­ing him tight­ly be­low a pair of shin­ing black pin­cers. Be­hind him, he could hear an­oth­er of the crea­tures, no doubt car­ry­ing Ron. They were mov­ing in­to the very heart of the for­est. Har­ry could hear Fang fight­ing to free him­self from a third mon­ster, whin­ing loud­ly, but Har­ry couldn’t have yelled even if he had want­ed to; he seemed to have left his voice back with the car in the clear­ing.

He nev­er knew how long he was in the crea­ture’s clutch­es; he on­ly knew that the dark­ness sud­den­ly lift­ed enough for him to see that the leaf-​strewn ground was now swarm­ing with spi­ders. Cran­ing his neck side­ways, he re­al­ized that they had reached the ridge of a vast hol­low, a hol­low that had been cleared of trees, so that the stars shone bright­ly on­to the worst scene he had ev­er laid eyes on.

Spi­ders. Not tiny spi­ders like those surg­ing over the leaves be­low. Spi­ders the size of carthors­es, eight-​eyed, eight-​legged, black, hairy, gi­gan­tic. The mas­sive spec­imen that was car­ry­ing Har­ry made its way down the steep slope to­ward a misty, domed web in the very cen­ter of the hol­low, while its fel­lows closed in all around it, click­ing their pin­cers ex­cit­ed­ly at the sight of its load.

Har­ry fell to the ground on all fours as the spi­der re­leased him. Ron and Fang thud­ded down next to him. Fang wasn’t howl­ing any­more, but cow­er­ing silent­ly on the spot. Ron looked ex­act­ly like Har­ry felt. His mouth was stretched wide in a kind of silent scream and his eyes were pop­ping.

Har­ry sud­den­ly re­al­ized that the spi­der that had dropped him was say­ing some­thing. It had been hard to tell, be­cause he clicked his pin­cers with ev­ery word he spoke.

“Ar­agog!” it called. “Ar­agog!”

And from the mid­dle of the misty, domed web, a spi­der the size of a small ele­phant emerged, very slow­ly. There was gray in the black of his body and legs, and each of the eyes on his ug­ly, pin­cered head was milky white. He was blind.

“What is it?” he said, click­ing his pin­cers rapid­ly.

“Men,” clicked the spi­der who had caught Har­ry.

“Is it Ha­grid?” said Ar­agog, mov­ing clos­er, his eight milky eyes wan­der­ing vague­ly.

“Strangers,” clicked the spi­der who had brought Ron.

“Kill them,” clicked Ar­agog fret­ful­ly. “I was sleep­ing….”

“We’re friends of Ha­grid’s,” Har­ry shout­ed. His heart seemed to have left his chest to pound in his throat.

Click, click, click went the pin­cers of the spi­ders all around the hol­low.

Ar­agog paused.

“Ha­grid has nev­er sent men in­to our hol­low be­fore,” he said slow­ly.

“Ha­grid’s in trou­ble,” said Har­ry, breath­ing very fast. “That’s why we’ve come.”

“In trou­ble?” said the aged spi­der, and Har­ry thought he heard con­cern be­neath the click­ing pin­cers. “But why has he sent you?”

Har­ry thought of get­ting to his feet but de­cid­ed against it; he didn’t think his legs would sup­port him. So he spoke from the ground, as calm­ly as he could.

“They think, up at the school, that Ha­grid’s been set­ting a — a — some­thing on stu­dents. They’ve tak­en him to Azk­aban.”

Ar­agog clicked his pin­cers fu­ri­ous­ly, and all around the hol­low the sound was echoed by the crowd of spi­ders; it was like ap­plause, ex­cept ap­plause didn’t usu­al­ly make Har­ry feel sick with fear.

“But that was years ago,” said Ar­agog fret­ful­ly. “Years and years ago. I re­mem­ber it well. That’s why they made him leave the school. They be­lieved that I was the mon­ster that dwells in what they call the Cham­ber of Se­crets. They thought that Ha­grid had opened the Cham­ber and set me free.”

“And you…you didn’t come from the Cham­ber of Se­crets?” said Har­ry, who could feel cold sweat on his fore­head.

“I!” said Ar­agog, click­ing an­gri­ly. “I was not born in the cas­tle. I come from a dis­tant land. A trav­el­er gave me to Ha­grid when I was an egg. Ha­grid was on­ly a boy, but he cared for me, hid­den in a cup­board in the cas­tle, feed­ing me on scraps from the ta­ble. Ha­grid is my good friend, and a good man. When I was dis­cov­ered, and blamed for the death of a girl, he pro­tect­ed me. I have lived here in the for­est ev­er since, where Ha­grid still vis­its me. He even found me a wife, Mosag, and you see how our fam­ily has grown, all through Ha­grid’s good­ness….”

Har­ry sum­moned what re­mained of his courage.

“So you nev­er — nev­er at­tacked any­one?”

“Nev­er,” croaked the old spi­der. “It would have been my in­stinct, but out of re­spect for Ha­grid, I nev­er harmed a hu­man. The body of the girl who was killed was dis­cov­ered in a bath­room. I nev­er saw any part of the cas­tle but the cup­board in which I grew up. Our kind like the dark and the qui­et….”

“But then…Do you know what did kill that girl?” said Har­ry. “Be­cause what­ev­er it is, it’s back and at­tack­ing peo­ple again —”

His words were drowned by a loud out­break of click­ing and the rustling of many long legs shift­ing an­gri­ly; large black shapes shift­ed all around him.

“The thing that lives in the cas­tle,” said Ar­agog, “is an an­cient crea­ture we spi­ders fear above all oth­ers. Well do I re­mem­ber how I plead­ed with Ha­grid to let me go, when I sensed the beast mov­ing about the school.”

“What is it?” said Har­ry ur­gent­ly.

More loud click­ing, more rustling; the spi­ders seemed to be clos­ing in.

“We do not speak of it!” said Ar­agog fierce­ly. “We do not name it! I nev­er even told Ha­grid the name of that dread crea­ture, though he asked me, many times.”

Har­ry didn’t want to press the sub­ject, not with the spi­ders press­ing clos­er on all sides. Ar­agog seemed to be tired of talk­ing. He was back­ing slow­ly in­to his domed web, but his fel­low spi­ders con­tin­ued to inch slow­ly to­ward Har­ry and Ron.

“We’ll just go, then,” Har­ry called des­per­ate­ly to Ar­agog, hear­ing leaves rustling be­hind him.

“Go?” said Ar­agog slow­ly. “I think not…”

“But — but —”

“My sons and daugh­ters do not harm Ha­grid, on my com­mand. But I can­not de­ny them fresh meat, when it wan­ders so will­ing­ly in­to our midst. Good-​bye, friend of Ha­grid.”

Har­ry spun around. Feet away, tow­er­ing above him, was a sol­id wall of spi­ders, click­ing, their many eyes gleam­ing in their ug­ly black heads.

Even as he reached for his wand, Har­ry knew it was no good, there were too many of them, but as he tried to stand, ready to die fight­ing, a loud, long note sound­ed, and a blaze of light flamed through the hol­low.

Mr. Weasley’s car was thun­der­ing down the slope, head­lights glar­ing, its horn screech­ing, knock­ing spi­ders aside; sev­er­al were thrown on­to their backs, their end­less legs wav­ing in the air. The car screeched to a halt in front of Har­ry and Ron and the doors flew open.

“Get Fang!” Har­ry yelled, div­ing in­to the front seat; Ron seized the boarhound around the mid­dle and threw him, yelp­ing, in­to the back of the car — the doors slammed shut — Ron didn’t touch the ac­cel­er­ator but the car didn’t need him; the en­gine roared and they were off, hit­ting more spi­ders. They sped up the slope, out of the hol­low, and they were soon crash­ing through the for­est, branch­es whip­ping the win­dows as the car wound its way clev­er­ly through the widest gaps, fol­low­ing a path it ob­vi­ous­ly knew.

Har­ry looked side­ways at Ron. His mouth was still open in the silent scream, but his eyes weren’t pop­ping any­more.

“Are you okay?”

Ron stared straight ahead, un­able to speak.

They smashed their way through the un­der­growth, Fang howl­ing loud­ly in the back seat, and Har­ry saw the side mir­ror snap off as they squeezed past a large oak. Af­ter ten noisy, rocky min­utes, the trees thinned, and Har­ry could again see patch­es of sky.

The car stopped so sud­den­ly that they were near­ly thrown in­to the wind­shield. They had reached the edge of the for­est. Fang flung him­self at the win­dow in his anx­iety to get out, and when Har­ry opened the door, he shot off through the trees to Ha­grid’s house, tail be­tween his legs. Har­ry got out too, and af­ter a minute or so, Ron seemed to re­gain the feel­ing in his limbs and fol­lowed, still stiff-​necked and star­ing. Har­ry gave the car a grate­ful pat as it re­versed back in­to the for­est and dis­ap­peared from view.

Har­ry went back in­to Ha­grid’s cab­in to get the In­vis­ibil­ity Cloak. Fang was trem­bling un­der a blan­ket in his bas­ket. When Har­ry got out­side again, he found Ron be­ing vi­olent sick in the pump­kin patch.

“Fol­low the spi­ders,” said Ron weak­ly, wip­ing his mouth on his sleeve. “I’ll nev­er for­give Ha­grid. We’re lucky to be alive.”

“I bet he thought Ar­agog wouldn’t hurt friends of his,” said Har­ry.

“That’s ex­act­ly Ha­grid’s prob­lem!” said Ron, thump­ing the wall of the cab­in. “He al­ways thinks mon­sters aren’t as bad as they’re made out, and look where it’s got him! A cell in Azk­aban!” He was shiv­er­ing un­con­trol­lably now. “What was the point of send­ing us in there? What have we found out, I’d like to know?”

“That Ha­grid nev­er opened the Cham­ber of Se­crets,” said Har­ry, throw­ing the cloak over Ron and prod­ding him in the arm to make him walk. “He was in­no­cent.”

Ron gave a loud snort. Ev­ident­ly, hatch­ing Ar­agog in a cup­board wasn’t his idea of be­ing in­no­cent.

As the cas­tle loomed near­er Har­ry twitched the cloak to make sure their feet were hid­den, then pushed the creak­ing front doors ajar. They walked care­ful­ly back across the en­trance hall and up the mar­ble stair­case, hold­ing their breath as they passed cor­ri­dors where watch­ful sen­tries were walk­ing. At last they reached the safe­ty of the Gryffind­or com­mon room, where the fire had burned it­self in­to glow­ing ash. They took off the cloak and climbed the wind­ing stair to their dor­mi­to­ry.

Ron fell on­to his bed with­out both­er­ing to get un­dressed. Har­ry, how­ev­er, didn’t feel very sleepy. He sat on the edge of his four­poster, think­ing hard about ev­ery­thing Ar­agog had said.

The crea­ture that was lurk­ing some­where in the cas­tle, he thought, sound­ed like a sort of mon­ster Volde­mort —even oth­er mon­sters didn’t want to name it. But he and Ron were no clos­er to find­ing out what it was, or how it pet­ri­fied its vic­tims. Even Ha­grid had nev­er known what was in the Cham­ber of Se­crets.

Har­ry swung his legs up on­to his bed and leaned back against his pil­lows, watch­ing the moon glint­ing at him through the tow­er win­dow.

He couldn’t see what else they could do. They had hit dead ends ev­ery­where. Rid­dle had caught the wrong per­son, the Heir of Slytherin had got off, and no one could tell whether it was the same per­son, or a dif­fer­ent one, who had opened the Cham­ber this time. There was no­body else to ask. Har­ry lay down, still think­ing about what Ar­agog had said.

He was be­com­ing drowsy when what seemed like their very last hope oc­curred to him, and he sud­den­ly sat bolt up­right.

“Ron,” he hissed through the dark, “Ron —”

Ron woke with a yelp like Fang’s, stared wild­ly around, and saw Har­ry.

“Ron — that girl who died. Ar­agog said she was found in a bath­room,” said Har­ry, ig­nor­ing Neville’s snuf­fling snores from the cor­ner. “What if she nev­er left the bath­room? What if she’s still there?”

Ron rubbed his eyes, frown­ing through the moon­light. And then he un­der­stood, too.

“You don’t think — not Moan­ing Myr­tle?”





CHAP­TER SIX­TEEN



THE CHAM­BER OF SE­CRETS



“All those times we were in that bath­room, and she was just three toi­lets away,” said Ron bit­ter­ly at break­fast next day, “and we could’ve asked her, and now…”

It had been hard enough try­ing to look for spi­ders. Es­cap­ing their teach­ers long enough to sneak in­to a girls’ bath­room, the girls’ bath­room, more­over, right next to the scene of the first at­tack, was go­ing to be al­most im­pos­si­ble.

But some­thing hap­pened in their first les­son, Trans­fig­ura­tion, that drove the Cham­ber of Se­crets out of their minds for the first time in weeks. Ten min­utes in­to the class, Pro­fes­sor McG­ona­gall told them that their ex­ams would start on the first of June, one week from to­day.

“Ex­ams?” howled Sea­mus Finni­gan. “We’re still get­ting ex­ams?”

There was a loud bang be­hind Har­ry as Neville Long­bot­tom’s wand slipped, van­ish­ing one of the legs on his desk.Pro­fes­sor McG­ona­gall re­stored it with a wave of her own wand, and turned, frown­ing, to Sea­mus.

“The whole point of keep­ing the school open at this time is for you to re­ceive your ed­uca­tion,” she said stern­ly. “The ex­ams will there­fore take place as usu­al, and I trust you are all study­ing hard.”

Study­ing hard! It had nev­er oc­curred to Har­ry that there would be ex­ams with the cas­tle in this state. There was a great deal of muti­nous mut­ter­ing around the room, which made Pro­fes­sor McG­ona­gall scowl even more dark­ly.

“Pro­fes­sor Dum­ble­dore’s in­struc­tions were to keep the school run­ning as nor­mal­ly as pos­si­ble, she said. “And that, I need hard­ly point out, means find­ing out how much you have learned this year.”

Har­ry looked down at the pair of white rab­bits he was sup­posed to be turn­ing in­to slip­pers. What had he learned so far this year? He couldn’t seem to think of any­thing that would be use­ful in an ex­am.

Ron looked as though he’d just been told he had to go and live in the For­bid­den For­est.

“Can you imag­ine me tak­ing ex­ams with this?” he asked Har­ry, hold­ing up his wand, which had just start­ed whistling loud­ly.



Three days be­fore their first ex­am, Pro­fes­sor McG­ona­gall made an­oth­er an­nounce­ment at break­fast.

“I have good news,” she said, and the Great Hall, in­stead of falling silent, erupt­ed.

“Dum­ble­dore’s com­ing back!” sev­er­al peo­ple yelled joy­ful­ly.

“You’ve caught the Heir of Slytherin!” squealed a girl at the Raven­claw ta­ble.

“Quid­ditch match­es are back on!” roared Wood ex­cit­ed­ly.

When the hub­bub had sub­sid­ed, Pro­fes­sor McG­ona­gall said, “Pro­fes­sor Sprout has in­formed me that the Man­drakes are ready for cut­ting at last. Tonight, we will be able to re­vive those peo­ple who have been Pet­ri­fied. I need hard­ly re­mind you all that one of them may well be able to tell us who, or what, at­tacked them. I am hope­ful that this dread­ful year will end with our catch­ing the cul­prit.”

There was an ex­plo­sion of cheer­ing. Har­ry looked over at the Slytherin ta­ble and wasn’t at all sur­prised to see that Dra­co Mal­foy hadn’t joined in. Ron, how­ev­er, was look­ing hap­pi­er than he’d looked in days.

“It won’t mat­ter that we nev­er asked Myr­tle, then!” he said to Har­ry. “Hermione’ll prob­ably have all the an­swers when they wake her up! Mind you, she’ll go crazy when she finds out we’ve got ex­ams in three days’ time. She hasn’t stud­ied. It might be kinder to leave her where she is till they’re over.”

Just then, Gin­ny Weasley came over and sat down next to Ron. She looked tense and ner­vous, and Har­ry no­ticed that her hands were twist­ing in her lap.

“What’s up?” said Ron, help­ing him­self to more por­ridge.

Gin­ny didn’t say any­thing, but glanced up and down the Gryffind­or ta­ble with a scared look on her face that re­mind­ed Har­ry of some­one, though he couldn’t think who.

“Spit it out,” said Ron, watch­ing her.

Har­ry sud­den­ly re­al­ized who Gin­ny looked like. She was rock­ing back­ward and for­ward slight­ly in her chair, ex­act­ly like Dob­by did when he was tee­ter­ing on the edge of re­veal­ing for­bid­den in­for­ma­tion.

“I’ve got to tell you some­thing,” Gin­ny mum­bled, care­ful­ly not look­ing at Har­ry.

“What is it?” said Har­ry.

Gin­ny looked as though she couldn’t find the right words.

“What?”said Ron.

Gin­ny opened her mouth, but no sound came out. Har­ry leaned for­ward and spoke qui­et­ly, so that on­ly Gin­ny and Ron could hear him.

“Is it some­thing about the Cham­ber of Se­crets? Have you seen some­thing? Some­one act­ing odd­ly?”

Gin­ny drew a deep breath and, at that pre­cise mo­ment, Per­cy Weasley ap­peared, look­ing tired and wan.

“If you’ve fin­ished eat­ing, I’ll take that seat, Gin­ny. I’m starv­ing, I’ve on­ly just come off pa­trol du­ty.”

Gin­ny jumped up as though her chair had just been elec­tri­fied, gave Per­cy a fleet­ing, fright­ened look, and scam­pered away. Per­cy sat down and grabbed a mug from the cen­ter of the ta­ble.

“Per­cy!” said Ron an­gri­ly. “She was just about to tell us some­thing im­por­tant!”

Halfway through a gulp of tea, Per­cy choked.

“What sort of thing?” he said, cough­ing.

“I just asked her if she’d seen any­thing odd, and she start­ed to say

“Oh — that — that’s noth­ing to do with the Cham­ber of Se­crets,” said Per­cy at once.

“How do you know?” said Ron, his eye­brows raised.

“Well, er, if you must know, Gin­ny, er, walked in on me the oth­er day when I was — well, nev­er mind — the point is, she spot­ted me do­ing some­thing and I, um, I asked her not to men­tion it to any­body. I must say, I did think she’d keep her word. It’s noth­ing, re­al­ly, I’d just rather —”

Har­ry had nev­er seen Per­cy look so un­com­fort­able.

“What were you do­ing, Per­cy?” said Ron, grin­ning. “Go on, tell us, we won’t laugh.”

Per­cy didn’t smile back.

“Pass me those rolls, Har­ry, I’m starv­ing.”



Har­ry knew the whole mys­tery might be solved to­mor­row with­out their help, but he wasn’t about to pass up a chance to speak to Myr­tle if it turned up — and to his de­light it did, mid­morn­ing, when they were be­ing led to His­to­ry of Mag­ic by Gilderoy Lock­hart.

Lock­hart, who had so of­ten as­sured them that all dan­ger had passed, on­ly to be proved wrong right away, was now whole­heart­ed­ly con­vinced that it was hard­ly worth the trou­ble to see them safe­ly down the cor­ri­dors. His hair wasn’t as sleek as usu­al; it seemed he had been up most of the night, pa­trolling the fourth floor.

“Mark my words,” he said, ush­er­ing them around a cor­ner. “The first words out of those poor Pet­ri­fied peo­ple’s mouths will be ‘It was Ha­grid.’ Frankly, I’m as­tound­ed Pro­fes­sor McG­ona­gall thinks all these se­cu­ri­ty mea­sures are nec­es­sary.”

“I agree, sir,” said Har­ry, mak­ing Ron drop his books in sur­prise.

“Thank you, Har­ry, said Lock­hart gra­cious­ly while they wait­ed for a long line of Huf­flepuffs to pass. “I mean, we teach­ers have quite enough to be get­ting on with, with­out walk­ing stu­dents to class­es and stand­ing guard all night….”

“That’s right,” said Ron, catch­ing on. “Why don’t you leave us here, sir, we’ve on­ly got one more cor­ri­dor to go —”

“You know, Weasley, I think I will,” said Lock­hart. “I re­al­ly should go and pre­pare my next class —”

And he hur­ried off.

“Pre­pare his class,” Ron sneered af­ter him. “Gone to curl his hair, more like.”

They let the rest of the Gryffind­ors draw ahead of them, then dart­ed down a side pas­sage and hur­ried off to­ward Moan­ing Myr­tle’s bath­room. But just as they were con­grat­ulat­ing each oth­er on their bril­liant scheme.

“Pot­ter! Weasley! What are you do­ing?”

It was Pro­fes­sor McG­ona­gall, and her mouth was the thinnest of thin lines.

“We were — we were —” Ron stam­mered. “We were go­ing to — to go and see —”

“Hermione,” said Har­ry. Ron and Pro­fes­sor McG­ona­gall both looked at him.

“We haven’t seen her for ages, Pro­fes­sor,” Har­ry went on hur­ried­ly, tread­ing on Ron’s foot, “and we thought we’d sneak in­to the hos­pi­tal wing, you know, and tell her the Man­drakes are near­ly ready and, er, not to wor­ry —”

Pro­fes­sor McG­ona­gall was still star­ing at him, and for a mo­ment, Har­ry thought she was go­ing to ex­plode, but when she spoke, it was in a strange­ly croaky voice.

“Of course,” she said, and Har­ry, amazed, saw a tear glis­ten­ing in her beady eye. “Of course, I re­al­ize this has all been hard­est on the friends of those who have been…I quite un­der­stand. Yes, Pot­ter, of course you may vis­it Miss Granger. I will in­form Pro­fes­sor Binns where you’ve gone. Tell Madam Pom­frey I have giv­en my per­mis­sion.”

Har­ry and Ron walked away, hard­ly dar­ing to be­lieve that they’d avoid­ed de­ten­tion. As they turned the cor­ner, they dis­tinct­ly heard Pro­fes­sor McG­ona­gall blow her nose.

“That,” said Ron fer­vent­ly, “was the best sto­ry you’ve ev­er come up with.”

They had no choice now but to go to the hos­pi­tal wing and tell Madam Pom­frey that they had Pro­fes­sor McG­ona­gall’s per­mis­sion to vis­it Hermione.

Madam Pom­frey let them in, but re­luc­tant­ly.

“There’s just no point talk­ing to a Pet­ri­fied. per­son,” she said, and they had to ad­mit she had a point when they’d tak­en their seats next to Hermione. It was plain that Hermione didn’t have the faintest inkling that she had vis­itors, and that they might just as well tell her bed­side cab­inet not to wor­ry for all the good it would do.

“Won­der if she did see the at­tack­er, though?” said Ron, look­ing sad­ly at Hermione’s rigid face. “Be­cause if he sneaked up on them all, no one’ll ev­er know…”

But Har­ry wasn’t look­ing at Hermione’s face. He was more in­ter­est­ed in her right hand. It lay clenched on top of her blan­kets, and bend­ing clos­er, he saw that a piece of pa­per was scrunched in­side her fist.

Mak­ing sure that Madam Pom­frey was nowhere near, he point­ed this out to Ron.

“Go on and get it out,” Ron whis­pered, shift­ing his chair so that he blocked Har­ry from Madam Pom­frey’s view.

It was no easy task. Hermione’s hand was clamped so tight­ly around the pa­per that Har­ry was sure he was go­ing to tear it. While Ron kept watch he tugged and twist­ed, and at last, af­ter sev­er­al tense min­utes, the pa­per came free.

It was a page torn from a very old li­brary book. Har­ry smoothed it out ea­ger­ly and Ron leaned close to read it, too.



“Of the many fear­some beasts and mon­sters that roam our land, there is none more cu­ri­ous or more dead­ly than the Basilisk, known al­so as the King of Ser­pents. This snake, which may reach gi­gan­tic size and live many hun­dreds of years, is born from a chick­en’s egg, hatched be­neath a toad. Its meth­ods of killing are most won­drous, for aside from its dead­ly and ven­omous fangs, the Basilisk has a mur­der­ous stare, and all who are fixed with the beam of its eye shall suf­fer in­stant death. Spi­ders flee be­fore the Basilisk, for it is their mor­tal en­emy, and the Basilisk flees on­ly from the crow­ing of the roost­er, which is fa­tal to it.”



And be­neath this, a sin­gle word had been writ­ten, in a hand Har­ry rec­og­nized as Hermione’s. Pipes.

It was as though some­body had just flicked a light on in his brain.

“Ron,” he breathed. “This is it. This is the an­swer. The mon­ster in the Cham­ber’s a basilisk — a gi­ant ser­pent! That’s why I’ve been hear­ing that voice all over the place, and no­body else has heard it. It’s be­cause I un­der­stand Parsel­tongue….”

Har­ry looked up at the beds around him.

“The basilisk kills peo­ple by look­ing at them. But no one’s died — be­cause no one looked it straight in the eye. Col­in saw it through his cam­era. The basilisk burned up all the film in­side it, but Col­in just got Pet­ri­fied. Justin… Justin must’ve seen the basilisk through Near­ly Head­less Nick! Nick got the full blast of it, but he couldn’t die again.. and Hermione and that Raven­claw pre­fect were found with a mir­ror next to them. Hermione had just re­al­ized the mon­ster was a basilisk. I bet you any­thing she warned the first per­son she met to look around cor­ners with a mir­ror first! And that girl pulled out her mir­ror — and —”

Rods jaw had dropped.

“And Mrs. Nor­ris?” he whis­pered ea­ger­ly.

Har­ry thought hard, pic­tur­ing the scene on the night of Hal­loween.

“The wa­ter…” he said slow­ly. “The flood from Moan­ing Myr­tle’s bath­room. I bet you Mrs. Nor­ris on­ly saw the re­flec­tion…”

He scanned the page in his hand ea­ger­ly. The more he looked at it, the more it made sense.

“…The crow­ing of the roost­er…is fa­tal to it”! he read aloud. “Ha­grid’s roost­ers were killed! The Heir of Slytherin didn’t want one any­where near the cas­tle once the Cham­ber was opened! Spi­ders flee be­fore it.! It all fits!”

“But how’s the basilisk been get­ting around the place?” said Ron. “A gi­ant snake…Some­one would’ve seen…”

Har­ry, how­ev­er, point­ed at the word Hermione had scrib­bled at the foot of the page.

“Pipes,” he said. “Pipes…Ron, it’s been us­ing the plumb­ing. I’ve been hear­ing that voice in­side the walls…”

Ron sud­den­ly grabbed Har­ry’s arm.

“The en­trance to the Cham­ber of Se­crets!” he said hoarse­ly. “What if it’s a bath­room? What if it’s in —”

“Moan­ing Myr­tle’s bath­room,” said Har­ry.

They sat there, ex­cite­ment cours­ing through them, hard­ly able to be­lieve it.

“This means,” said Har­ry, “I can’t be the on­ly Parsel­mouth in the school. The Heir of Slytherin’s one, too. That’s how he’s been con­trol­ling the basilisk.”

“What’re we go­ing to do?” said Ron, whose eyes were flash­ing. “Should we go straight to McG­ona­gall?”

“Let’s go to the staff room,” said Har­ry, jump­ing up. “She’ll be there in ten min­utes. It’s near­ly break.”

They ran down­stairs. Not want­ing to be dis­cov­ered hang­ing around in an­oth­er cor­ri­dor, they went straight in­to the de­sert­ed staff room. It was a large, pan­eled room full of dark, wood­en chairs. Har­ry and Ron paced around it, too ex­cit­ed to sit down.

But the bell to sig­nal break nev­er came.

In­stead, echo­ing through the cor­ri­dors came Pro­fes­sor McG­ona­gall’s voice, mag­ical­ly mag­ni­fied.

“All stu­dents to re­turn to their House dor­mi­to­ries at once. All teach­ers re­turn to the staff room. Im­me­di­ate­ly, please.”

Har­ry wheeled around to stare at Ron. “Not an­oth­er at­tack? Not now?”

“What’ll we do?” said Ron, aghast. “Go back to the dor­mi­to­ry?” “No,” said Har­ry, glanc­ing around. There was an ug­ly sort of wardrobe to his left, full of the teach­ers’ cloaks. “In here. Let’s hear what it’s all about. Then we can tell them what we’ve found out.”

They hid them­selves in­side it, lis­ten­ing to the rum­bling of hun­dreds of peo­ple mov­ing over­head, and the staff room door bang­ing open. From be­tween the musty folds of the cloaks, they watched the teach­ers fil­ter­ing in­to the room. Some of them were look­ing puz­zled, oth­ers down­right scared. Then Pro­fes­sor McG­ona­gall ar­rived.

“It has hap­pened,” she told the silent staff room. “A stu­dent has been tak­en by the mon­ster. Right in­to the Cham­ber it­self.”

Pro­fes­sor Flitwick let out a squeal. Pro­fes­sor Sprout clapped her hands over her mouth. Snape gripped the back of a chair very hard and said, “How can you be sure?”

“The Heir of Slytherin,” said Pro­fes­sor McG­ona­gall, who was very white, “left an­oth­er mes­sage. Right un­der­neath the first one. ‘Her skele­ton will lie in the Cham­ber for­ev­er.’”

Pro­fes­sor Flitwick burst in­to tears.

“Who is it?” said Madam Hooch, who had sunk, weak-​kneed, in­to a chair. “Which stu­dent?”

“Gin­ny Weasley,” said Pro­fes­sor McG­ona­gall.

Har­ry felt Ron slide silent­ly down on­to the wardrobe floor be­side him.

“We shall have to send all the stu­dents home to­mor­row,” said Pro­fes­sor McG­ona­gall. “This is the end of Hog­warts. Dum­ble­dore al­ways said…”

The staffroom door banged open again. For one wild mo­ment, Har­ry was sure it would be Dum­ble­dore. But it was Lock­hart, and he was beam­ing.

“So sor­ry — dozed off — what have I missed?”

He didn’t seem to no­tice that the oth­er teach­ers were look­ing at him with some­thing re­mark­ably like ha­tred. Snape stepped for­ward.

“Just the man,” he said. “The very man. A girl has been snatched by the mon­ster, Lock­hart. Tak­en in­to the Cham­ber of Se­crets it­self. Your mo­ment has come at last.”

Lock­hart blanched.

“That’s right, Gilderoy,” chipped in Pro­fes­sor Sprout. “Weren’t you say­ing just last night that you’ve known all along where the en­trance to the Cham­ber of Se­crets is?”

“I — well, I —”sput­tered Lock­hart.

“Yes, didn’t you tell me you were sure you knew what was in­side it?” piped up Pro­fes­sor Flitwick.

“D-​did I? I don’t re­call —”

“I cer­tain­ly re­mem­ber you say­ing you were sor­ry you hadn’t had a crack at the mon­ster be­fore Ha­grid was ar­rest­ed,” said Snape. “Didn’t you say that the whole af­fair had been bun­gled, and that you should have been giv­en a free rein from the first?”

Lock­hart stared around at his stony-​faced col­leagues.

“I — I re­al­ly nev­er — you may have mis­un­der­stood —”

“We’ll leave it to you, then, Gilderoy,” said Pro­fes­sor McG­ona­gall. “Tonight will be an ex­cel­lent time to do it. We’ll make sure ev­ery­one’s out of your way. You’ll be able to tack­le the mon­ster all by you­self. A free rein at last.”

Lock­hart gazed des­per­ate­ly around him, but no­body came to the res­cue. He didn’t look re­mote­ly hand­some any­more. His lip was trem­bling, and in the ab­sence of his usu­al­ly toothy grin, he looked weak-​chinned and fee­ble.

“V-​very well,” he said. “I’ll — I’ll be in my of­fice, get­ting — get­ting ready.”

And he left the room.

“Right,” said Pro­fes­sor McG­ona­gall, whose nos­trils were flared, “that’s got him out from un­der our feet. The Heads of Hous­es should go and in­form their stu­dents what has hap­pened. Tell them the Hog­warts Ex­press will take them home first thing to­mor­row. Will the rest of you please make sure no stu­dents have been left out­side their dor­mi­to­ries.”

The teach­ers rose and left, one by one.



It was prob­ably the worst day of Har­ry’s en­tire life. He, Ron, Fred, and George sat to­geth­er in a cor­ner of the Gryffind­or com­mon room, un­able to say any­thing to each oth­er. Per­cy wasn’t there. He had gone to send an owl to Mr. and Mrs. Weasley, then shut him­self up in his dor­mi­to­ry.

No af­ter­noon ev­er last­ed as long as that one, nor had Gryffind­or Tow­er ev­er been so crowd­ed, yet so qui­et. Near sun­set, Fred and George went up to bed, un­able to sit there any longer.

“She knew some­thing, Har­ry,” said Ron, speak­ing for the first time since they had en­tered the wardrobe in the staff room. “That’s why she was tak­en. It wasn’t some stupid thing about Per­cy at all., She’d found out some­thing about the Cham­ber of Se­crets. That must be why she was —” Ron rubbed his eyes fran­ti­cal­ly. “I mean, she was a pure-​blood. There can’t be any oth­er rea­son.”

Har­ry could see the sun sink­ing, blood-​red, be­low the sky­line. This was the worst he had ev­er felt. If on­ly there was some­thing they could do. Any­thing.

“Har­ry” said Ron. “D’you think there’s any chance at all she’s not — you know —”

Har­ry didn’t know what to say. He couldn’t see how Gin­ny could still be alive.

“D’you know what?” said Ron. “I think we should go and see Lock­hart. Tell him what we know. He’s go­ing to try and get in­to the Cham­ber. We can tell him where we think it is, and tell him it’s a basilisk in there.”

Be­cause Har­ry couldn’t think of any­thing else to do, and be­cause he want­ed to be do­ing some­thing, he agreed. The Gryffind­ors around them were so mis­er­able, and felt so sor­ry for the Weasleys, that no­body tried to stop them as they got up, crossed the room, and left through the por­trait hole.

Dark­ness was falling as they walked down to Lock­hart’s of­fice. There seemed to be a lot of ac­tiv­ity go­ing on in­side it. They could hear scrap­ing, thumps, and hur­ried foot­steps.

Har­ry knocked and there was a sud­den si­lence from in­side. Then the door opened the tini­est crack and they saw one of Lock­hart’s eyes peer­ing through it.

“Oh — Mr. Pot­ter — Mr. Weasley —” he said, open­ing the door a bit wider. “I’m rather busy at the mo­ment —if you would be quick —”

“Pro­fes­sor, we’ve got some in­for­ma­tion for you,” said Har­ry. “We think it’ll help you.”

“Er — well — it’s not ter­ri­bly —” The side of Lock­hart’s face that they could see looked very un­com­fort­able. “I mean — well — all right —”

He opened the door and they en­tered.

His of­fice had been al­most com­plete­ly stripped. Two large trunks stood open on the floor. Robes, jade-​green, lilac, mid­night blue, had been hasti­ly fold­ed in­to one of them; books were jum­bled un­tidi­ly in­to the oth­er. The pho­tographs that had cov­ered the walls were now crammed in­to box­es on the desk.

“Are you go­ing some­where?” said Har­ry.

“Er, well, yes,” said Lock­hart, rip­ping a life-​size poster of him­self from the back of the door as he spoke and start­ing to roll it up. “Ur­gent call — un­avoid­able — got to go —”

“What about my sis­ter?” said Ron jerk­ily.

“Well, as to that — most un­for­tu­nate —” said Lock­hart, avoid­ing their eyes as he wrenched open a draw­er and start­ed emp­ty­ing the con­tents in­to a bag. “No one re­grets more than I —”

“You’re the De­fense Against the Dark Arts teach­er!” said Har­ry. “You can’t go now! Not with all the Dark stuff go­ing on here!”

“Well — I must say — when I took the job —” Lock­hart mut­tered, now pil­ing socks on top of his robes. “noth­ing in the job de­scrip­tion — didn’t ex­pect —”

“You mean you’re run­ning away?” said Har­ry dis­be­liev­ing­ly. “Af­ter all that stuff you did in your books —”

“Books can be mis­lead­ing,” said Lock­hart del­icate­ly.

“You wrote them!” Har­ry shout­ed.

“My dear boy,” said Lock­hart, straight­en­ing up and frown­ing at Har­ry. “Do use your com­mon sense. My books wouldn’t have sold half as well if peo­ple didn’t think I’d done all those things. No one wants to read about some ug­ly old Ar­me­ni­an war­lock, even if he did save a vil­lage from were­wolves. He’d look dread­ful on the front cov­er. No dress sense at all. And the witch who ban­ished the Ban­don Ban­shee had a hare­lip. I mean, come on —”

“So you’ve just been tak­ing cred­it for what a load of oth­er peo­ple have done?” said Har­ry in­cred­ulous­ly.

“Har­ry, Har­ry,” said Lock­hart, shak­ing his head im­pa­tient­ly, “it’s not near­ly as sim­ple as that. There was work in­volved. I had to track these peo­ple down. Ask them ex­act­ly how they man­aged to do what they did. Then I had to put a Mem­ory Charm on them so they wouldn’t re­mem­ber do­ing it. If there’s one thing I pride my­self on, it’s my Mem­ory Charms. No, it’s been a lot of work, Har­ry. It’s not all book sign­ings and pub­lic­ity pho­tos, you know. You want fame, you have to be pre­pared for a long hard slog.”

He banged the lids of his trunks shut and locked them.

“Let’s see,” he said. “I think that’s ev­ery­thing. Yes. On­ly one thing left.”

He pulled out his wand and turned to them.

“Aw­ful­ly sor­ry, boys, but I’ll have to put a Mem­ory Charm on you now. Can’t have you blab­bing my se­crets all over the place. I’d nev­er sell an­oth­er book —”

Har­ry reached his wand just in time. Lock­hart had bare­ly raised his, when Har­ry bel­lowed, “Ex­pel­liar­mus!”

Lock­hart was blast­ed back­ward, falling over his trunk; his wand flew high in­to the air; Ron caught it, and flung it out of the open win­dow.

“Shouldn’t have let Pro­fes­sor Snape teach us that one,” said Har­ry fu­ri­ous­ly, kick­ing Lock­hart’s trunk aside. Lock­hart was look­ing up at him, fee­ble once more. Har­ry was still point­ing his wand at him.

“What d’you want me to do?” said Lock­hart weak­ly. “I don’t know where the Cham­ber of Se­crets is. There’s noth­ing I can do.”

“You’re in luck,” said Har­ry, forc­ing Lock­hart to his feet at wand­point. “We think we know where it is. And what’s in­side it. Let’s go.”

They marched Lock­hart out of his of­fice and down the near­est stairs, along the dark cor­ri­dor where the mes­sages shone on the wall, to the door of Moan­ing Myr­tle’s bath­room.

They sent Lock­hart in first. Har­ry was pleased to see that he was shak­ing.

Moan­ing Myr­tle was sit­ting on the tank of the end toi­let.

“Oh, it’s you,” she said when she saw Har­ry. “What do you want this time?”

“To ask you how you died,” said Har­ry.

Myr­tle’s whole as­pect changed at once. She looked as though she had nev­er been asked such a flat­ter­ing ques­tion.

“Ooooh, it was dread­ful,” she said with rel­ish. “It hap­pened right in here. I died in this very stall. I re­mem­ber it so well. I’d hid­den be­cause Olive Horn­by was teas­ing me about my glass­es. The door was locked, and I was cry­ing, and then I heard some­body come in. They said some­thing fun­ny. A dif­fer­ent lan­guage, I think it must have been. Any­way, what re­al­ly got me was that it was a boy speak­ing. So I un­locked the door, to tell him to go and use his own toi­let, and then —” Myr­tle swelled im­por­tant­ly, her face shin­ing. “I died.”

“How?” said Har­ry.

“No idea,” said Myr­tle in hushed tones. “I just re­mem­ber see­ing a pair of great, big, yel­low eyes. My whole body sort of seized up, and then I was float­ing away….” She looked dream­ily at Har­ry. “And then I came back again. I was de­ter­mined to haunt Olive Horn­by, you see. Oh, she was sor­ry she’d ev­er laughed at my glass­es.”

“Where ex­act­ly did you see the eyes?” said Har­ry.

“Some­where there,” said Myr­tle, point­ing vague­ly to­ward the sink in front of her toi­let.

Har­ry and Ron hur­ried over to it. Lock­hart was stand­ing well back, a look of ut­ter ter­ror on his face.

It looked like an or­di­nary sink. They ex­am­ined ev­ery inch of it, in­side and out, in­clud­ing the pipes be­low. And then Har­ry saw it: Scratched on the side of one of the cop­per taps was a tiny snake.

“That tap’s nev­er worked,” said Myr­tle bright­ly as he tried to turn it.

“Har­ry,” said Ron. “Say some­thing. Some­thing in Parsel­tongue.”

“But —” Har­ry thought hard. The on­ly times he’d ev­er man­aged to speak Parsel­tongue were when he’d been faced with a re­al snake. He stared hard at the tiny en­grav­ing, try­ing to imag­ine it was re­al.

“Open up,” he said.

He looked at Ron, who shook his head.

“En­glish,” he said.

Har­ry looked back at the snake, will­ing him­self to be­lieve it was alive. If he moved his head, the can­dle­light made it look as though it were mov­ing.

“Open up,” he said.

Ex­cept that the words weren’t what he heard; a strange hiss­ing had es­caped him, and at once the tap glowed with a bril­liant white light and be­gan to spin. Next sec­ond, the sink be­gan to move; the sink, in fact, sank, right out of sight, leav­ing a large pipe ex­posed, a pipe wide enough for a man to slide in­to.

Har­ry heard Ron gasp and looked up again. He had made up his mind what he was go­ing to do.

“I’m go­ing down there,” he said.

He couldn’t not go, not now they had found the en­trance to the Cham­ber, not if there was even the faintest, slimmest, wildest chance that Gin­ny might be alive.

“Me too,” said Ron.

There was a pause.

“Well, you hard­ly seem to need me,” said Lock­hart, with a shad­ow of his old smile. “I’ll just —”

He put his hand on the door knob, but Ron and Har­ry both point­ed their wands at him.

“You can go first,” Ron snarled.

White-​faced and wand­less, Lock­hart ap­proached the open­ing.

“Boys,” he said, his voice fee­ble. “Boys, what good will it do?”

Har­ry jabbed him in the back with his wand. Lock­hart slid his legs in­to the pipe.

“I re­al­ly don’t think —” he start­ed to say, but Ron gave him a push, and he slid out of sight. Har­ry fol­lowed quick­ly. He low­ered him­self slow­ly in­to the pipe, then let go.

It was like rush­ing down an end­less, slimy, dark slide. He could see more pipes branch­ing off in all di­rec­tions, but none as large as theirs, which twist­ed and turned, slop­ing steeply down­ward, and he knew that he was falling deep­er be­low the school than even the dun­geons. Be­hind him he could hear Ron, thud­ding slight­ly at the curves.

And then, just as he had be­gun to wor­ry about what would hap­pen when he hit the ground, the pipe lev­eled out, and he shot out of the end with a wet thud, land­ing on the damp floor of a dark stone tun­nel large enough to stand in. Lock­hart was get­ting to his feet a lit­tle ways away, cov­ered in slime and white as a ghost. Har­ry stood aside as Ron came whizzing out of the pipe, too.

“We must be miles un­der the school,” said Har­ry, his voice echo­ing in the black tun­nel.

“Un­der the lake, prob­ably,” said Ron, squint­ing around at the dark, slimy walls.

All three of them turned to stare in­to the dark­ness ahead.

“Lu­mos!” Har­ry mut­tered to his wand and it lit again. “C’mon,” he said to Ron and Lock­hart, and off they went, their foot­steps slap­ping loud­ly on the wet floor.

The tun­nel was so dark that they could on­ly see a lit­tle dis­tance ahead. Their shad­ows on the wet walls looked mon­strous in the wan­dlight.

“Re­mem­ber,” Har­ry said qui­et­ly as they walked cau­tious­ly for­ward, “any sign of move­ment, close your eyes right away….”

But the tun­nel was qui­et as the grave, and the first un­ex­pect­ed sound they heard was a loud crunch as Ron stepped on what turned out to be a rat’s skull. Har­ry low­ered his wand to look at the floor and saw that it was lit­tered with small an­imal bones. Try­ing very hard not to imag­ine what Gin­ny might look like if they found her, Har­ry led the way for­ward, around a dark bend in the tun­nel.

“Har­ry — there’s some­thing up there —” said Ron hoarse­ly, grab­bing Har­ry’s shoul­der.

They froze, watch­ing. Har­ry could just see the out­line of some­thing huge and curved, ly­ing right across the tun­nel. It wasn’t mov­ing.

“Maybe it’s asleep,” he breathed, glanc­ing back at the oth­er two. Lock­hart’s hands were pressed over his eyes. Har­ry turned back to look at the thing, his heart beat­ing so fast it hurt.

Very slow­ly, his eyes as nar­row as he could make them and still see, Har­ry edged for­ward, his wand held high.

The light slid over a gi­gan­tic snake skin, of a vivid, poi­sonous green, ly­ing curled and emp­ty across the tun­nel floor. The crea­ture that had shed it must have been twen­ty feet long at least.

“Blimey,” said Ron weak­ly.

There was a sud­den move­ment be­hind them. Gilderoy Lock­hart’s knees had giv­en way.

“Get up,” said Ron sharply, point­ing his wand at Lock­hart.

Lock­hart got to his feet — then he dived at Ron, knock­ing him to the ground.

Har­ry jumped for­ward, but too late — Lock­hart was straight­en­ing up, pant­ing, Ron’s wand in his hand and a gleam­ing smile back on his face.

“The ad­ven­ture ends here, boys!” he said. “I shall take a bit of this skin back up to the school, tell them I was too late to save the girl, and that you two trag­ical­ly lost your minds at the sight of her man­gled body — say good-​bye to your mem­ories!”

He raised Ron’s Spel­lotaped wand high over his head and yelled, “Oblivi­ate!”

The wand ex­plod­ed with the force of a small bomb. Har­ry flung his arms over his head and ran, slip­ping over the coils of snake skin, out of the way of great chunks of tun­nel ceil­ing that were thun­der­ing to the floor. Next mo­ment, he was stand­ing alone, gaz­ing at a sol­id wall of bro­ken rock.

“Ron!” he shout­ed. “Are you okay? Ron!”

“I’m here!” came Ron’s muf­fled voice from be­hind the rock­fall. “I’m okay — this git’s not, though — he got blast­ed by the wand —”

There was a dull thud and a loud “ow!” It sound­ed as though Ron had just kicked Lock­hart in the shins.

“What now?” Ron’s voice said, sound­ing des­per­ate. “We can’t get through — it’ll take ages….”

Har­ry looked up at the tun­nel ceil­ing. Huge cracks had ap­peared in it. He had nev­er tried to break apart any­thing as large as these rocks by mag­ic, and now didn’t seem a good mo­ment to try — what if the whole tun­nel caved in?

There was an­oth­er thud and an­oth­er “ow!” from be­hind the rocks. They were wast­ing time. Gin­ny had al­ready been in the Cham­ber of Se­crets for hours….Har­ry knew there was on­ly one thing to do.

“Wait there,” he called to Ron. “Wait with Lock­hart. I’ll go on…If I’m not back in an hour…”

There was a very preg­nant pause, “I’ll try and shift some of this rock,” said Ron, who seemed to be try­ing to keep his voice steady. “So you can — can get back through. And, Har­ry —”

“See you in a bit,” said Har­ry, try­ing to in­ject some con­fi­dence in­to his shak­ing voice.

And he set off alone past the gi­ant snake skin.

Soon the dis­tant noise of Ron strain­ing to shift the rocks was gone. The tun­nel turned and turned again. Ev­ery nerve in Har­ry’s body was tin­gling un­pleas­ant­ly. He want­ed the tun­nel to end, yet dread­ed what he’d find when it did. And then, at last, as he crept around yet an­oth­er bend, he saw a sol­id wall ahead on which two en­twined ser­pents were carved, their eyes set with great, glint­ing emer­alds.

Har­ry ap­proached, his throat very dry. There was no need to pre­tend these stone snakes were re­al; their eyes looked strange­ly alive.

He could guess what he had to do. He cleared his throat, and the emer­ald eyes seemed to flick­er.

“Open,”said Har­ry, in a low, faint hiss.

The ser­pents part­ed as the wall cracked open, the halves slid smooth­ly out of sight, and Har­ry, shak­ing from head to foot, walked in­side.





CHAP­TER SEV­EN­TEEN



THE HEIR OF SLYTHERIN



He was stand­ing at the end of a very long, dim­ly lit cham­ber. Tow­er­ing stone pil­lars en­twined with more carved ser­pents rose to sup­port a ceil­ing lost in dark­ness, cast­ing long, black shad­ows through the odd, green­ish gloom that filled the place. His heart beat­ing very fast, Har­ry stood lis­ten­ing to the chill si­lence. Could the basilisk be lurk­ing in a shad­owy cor­ner, be­hind a pil­lar? And where was Gin­ny?

He pulled out his wand and moved for­ward be­tween the ser­pen­tine columns. Ev­ery care­ful foot­step echoed loud­ly off the shad­owy walls. He kept his eyes nar­rowed, ready to clamp them shut at the small­est sign of move­ment. The hol­low eye sock­ets of the stone snakes seemed to be fol­low­ing him. More than once, with a jolt of the stom­ach, he thought he saw one stir.

Then, as he drew lev­el with the last pair of pil­lars, a stat­ue high as the Cham­ber it­self loomed in­to view, stand­ing against the back wall.

Har­ry had to crane his neck to look up in­to the gi­ant face above: It was an­cient and mon­key­ish, with a long, thin beard that fell al­most to the bot­tom of the wiz­ard’s sweep­ing stone robes, where two enor­mous gray feet stood on the smooth Cham­ber floor. And be­tween the feet, face­down, lay a small, black-​robed fig­ure with flam­ing-​red hair.

“Gin­ny!” Har­ry mut­tered, sprint­ing to her and drop­ping to his knees. “Gin­ny — don’t be dead — please don’t be dead —” He flung his wand aside, grabbed Gin­ny’s shoul­ders, and turned her over. Her face was white as mar­ble, and as cold, yet her eyes were closed, so she wasn’t Pet­ri­fied. But then she must be…

“Gin­ny, please wake up,” Har­ry mut­tered des­per­ate­ly, shak­ing her. Gin­ny’s head lolled hope­less­ly from side to side.

“She won’t wake,” said a soft voice.

Har­ry jumped and spun around on his knees.

A tall, black-​haired boy was lean­ing against the near­est pil­lar, watch­ing. He was strange­ly blurred around the edges, as though Har­ry were look­ing at him through a mist­ed win­dow. But there was no mis­tak­ing him.

“Tom — Tom Rid­dle?”

Rid­dle nod­ded, not tak­ing his eyes off Har­ry’s face.

“What d’you mean, she won’t wake?” Har­ry said des­per­ate­ly. “She’s not — she’s not —?”

“She’s still alive,” said Rid­dle. “But on­ly just.”

Har­ry stared at him. Tom Rid­dle had been at Hog­warts fifty years ago, yet here he stood, a weird, misty light shin­ing about him, not a day old­er than six­teen.

“Are you a ghost?” Har­ry said un­cer­tain­ly.

“A mem­ory,” said Rid­dle qui­et­ly. “Pre­served in a di­ary for fifty years.”

He point­ed to­ward the floor near the stat­ue’s gi­ant toes. Ly­ing open there was the lit­tle black di­ary Har­ry had found in Moan­ing Myr­tle’s bath­room. For a sec­ond, Har­ry won­dered how it had got there — but there were more press­ing mat­ters to deal with.

“You’ve got to help me, Tom,” Har­ry said, rais­ing Gin­ny’s head again. “We’ve got to get her out of here. There’s a basilisk…I don’t know where it is, but it could be along any mo­ment…Please, help me.”

Rid­dle didn’t move. Har­ry, sweat­ing, man­aged to hoist Gin­ny half off the floor, and bent to pick up his wand again.

But his wand had gone.

“Did you see —?”

He looked up. Rid­dle was still watch­ing him — twirling Har­ry’s wand be­tween his long fin­gers.

“Thanks,” said Har­ry, stretch­ing out his hand for it.

A smile curled the cor­ners of Rid­dle’s mouth. He con­tin­ued to stare at Har­ry, twirling the wand idly.

“Lis­ten,” said Har­ry ur­gent­ly, his knees sag­ging with Gin­ny’s dead weight. “We’ve got to go! If the basilisk comes —”

“It won’t come un­til it is called,” said Rid­dle calm­ly.

Har­ry low­ered Gin­ny back on­to the floor, un­able to hold her up any longer.

“What d’you mean?” he said. “Look, give me my wand, I might need it —”

Rid­dle’s smile broad­ened.

“You won’t be need­ing it,” he said.

Har­ry stared at him.

“What d’you mean, I won’t be —?”

“I’ve wait­ed a long time for this, Har­ry Pot­ter,” said Rid­dle. “For the chance to see you. To speak to you.”

“Look,” said Har­ry, los­ing pa­tience, “I don’t think you get it. We’re in the Cham­ber of Se­crets. We can talk lat­er —”

“We’re go­ing to talk now,” said Rid­dle, still smil­ing broad­ly, and he pock­et­ed Har­ry’s wand.

Har­ry stared at him. There was some­thing very fun­ny go­ing on here ….

“How did Gin­ny get like this?” he asked slow­ly.

“Well, that’s an in­ter­est­ing ques­tion,” said Rid­dle pleas­ant­ly. “And quite a long sto­ry. I sup­pose the re­al rea­son Gin­ny Weasley’s like this is be­cause she opened her heart and spilled all her se­crets to an in­vis­ible stranger.”

“What are you talk­ing about?” said Har­ry.

“The di­ary,” said Rid­dle. `My di­ary. Lit­tle Gin­ny’s been writ­ing in it for months and months, telling me all her piti­ful wor­ries and woes — how her broth­ers tease her, how she had to come to school with sec­ond­hand robes and books, how —” Rid­dle’s eyes glint­ed “— how she didn’t think fa­mous, good, great Har­ry Pot­ter would ev­er like her…”

All the time he spoke, Rid­dle’s eyes nev­er left Har­ry’s face. There was an al­most hun­gry look in them.

“It’s very bor­ing, hav­ing to lis­ten to the sil­ly lit­tle trou­bles of an eleven-​year-​old girl,” he went on. “But I was pa­tient. I wrote back. I was sym­pa­thet­ic, I was kind. Gin­ny sim­ply loved me. No one’s ev­er un­der­stood me like you,Tom … I’m so glad I’ve got this di­ary to con­fide in … It’s like hav­ing a friend I can car­ry around in my pock­et …”

Rid­dle laughed, a high, cold laugh that didn’t suit him. It made the hairs stand up on the back of Har­ry’s neck.

“If I say it my­self, Har­ry, I’ve al­ways been able to charm the peo­ple I need­ed. So Gin­ny poured out her soul to me, and her soul hap­pened to be ex­act­ly what I want­ed… I grew stronger and stronger on a di­et of her deep­est fears, her dark­est se­crets. I grew pow­er­ful, far more pow­er­ful than lit­tle Miss Weasley. Pow­er­ful enough to start feed­ing Miss Weasley a few of my se­crets, to start pour­ing a lit­tle of my soul back in­to her…”

“What d’you mean?” said Har­ry, whose mouth had gone very dry.

“Haven’t you guessed yet, Har­ry Pot­ter?” said Rid­dle soft­ly. “Gin­ny Weasley opened the Cham­ber of Se­crets. She stran­gled the school roost­ers and daubed threat­en­ing mes­sages on the walls. She set the Ser­pent of Slytherin on four Mud­bloods, and the Squib’s cat.”

“No,” Har­ry whis­pered.

“Yes,” said Rid­dle, calm­ly. “Of course, she didn’t know what she was do­ing at first. It was very amus­ing. I wish you could have seen her new di­ary en­tries…far more in­ter­est­ing, they be­came… Dear Tom,” he re­cit­ed, watch­ing Har­ry’s hor­ri­fied face, `I think I’m los­ing my mem­ory. There are roost­er feath­ers all over my robes and 1 don’t know how they got there. Dear Tom, l can’t re­mem­ber what I did on the night of Hal­loween, but a cat was at­tacked and I’ve got paint all down my front. Dear Tom, Per­cy keeps telling me I’m pale and I’m not my­self. I think he sus­pects me… There was an­oth­er at­tack to­day and I don’t know where I was. Tom, what am I go­ing to do? I think I’m go­ing mad… I think I’m the one at­tack­ing ev­ery­one, Tom!”

Har­ry’s fists were clenched, the nails dig­ging deep in­to his palms.

“It took a very long time for stupid lit­tle Gin­ny to stop trust­ing her di­ary,” said Rid­dle. “But she fi­nal­ly be­came sus­pi­cious and tried to dis­pose of it. And that’s where you came in, Har­ry. You found it, and I couldn’t have been more de­light­ed. Of all the peo­ple who could have picked it up, it was you, the very per­son I was most anx­ious to meet…”

“And why did you want to meet me?” said Har­ry. Anger was cours­ing through him, and it was an ef­fort to keep his voice steady.

“Well, you see, Gin­ny told me all about you, Har­ry,” said Rid­dle. “Your whole fas­ci­nat­ing his­to­ry.” His eyes roved over the light­ning scar on Har­ry’s fore­head, and their ex­pres­sion grew hun­gri­er. “I knew I must find out more about you, talk to you, meet you if I could. So I de­cid­ed to show you my fa­mous cap­ture of that great oaf, Ha­grid, to gain your trust —”

“Ha­grid’s my friend,” said Har­ry, his voice now shak­ing. “And you framed him, didn’t you? I thought you made a mis­take, but —”

Rid­dle laughed his high laugh again.

“It was my word against Ha­grid’s, Har­ry. Well, you can imag­ine how it looked to old Ar­man­do Dip­pet. On the one hand, Tom Rid­dle, poor but bril­liant, par­ent­less but so brave, school pre­fect, mod­el stu­dent… on the oth­er hand, big, blun­der­ing Ha­grid, in trou­ble ev­ery oth­er week, try­ing to raise were­wolf cubs un­der his bed, sneak­ing off to the For­bid­den For­est to wres­tle trolls… but I ad­mit, even I was sur­prised how well the plan worked. I thought some­one must re­al­ize that Ha­grid couldn’t pos­si­bly be the Heir of Slytherin. It had tak­en me five whole years to find out ev­ery­thing I could about the Cham­ber of Se­crets and dis­cov­er the se­cret en­trance… as though Ha­grid had the brains, or the pow­er!

“On­ly the Trans­fig­ura­tion teach­er, Dum­ble­dore, seemed to think Ha­grid was in­no­cent. He per­suad­ed Dip­pet­to keep Ha­grid and train him as game­keep­er. Yes, I think Dum­ble­dore might have guessed…Dum­ble­dore nev­er seemed to like me as much as the oth­er teach­ers did …”

“I bet Dum­ble­dore saw right through you,” said Har­ry, his teeth grit­ted.

“Well, he cer­tain­ly kept an an­noy­ing­ly close watch on me af­ter Ha­grid was ex­pelled,” said Rid­dle care­less­ly. “I knew it wouldn’t be safe to open the Cham­ber again while I was still at school. But I wasn’t go­ing to waste those long years I’d spent search­ing for it. I de­cid­ed to leave be­hind a di­ary, pre­serv­ing my six­teen-​year-​old self in its pages, so that one day, with luck, I would be able to lead an­oth­er in my foot­steps, and fin­ish Salazar Slytherin’s no­ble work.”

“Well, you haven’t fin­ished it,” said Har­ry tri­umphant­ly. “No one’s died this time, not even the cat. In a few hours the Man­drake Draught will be ready and ev­ery­one who was Pet­ri­fied will be all right again —”

“Haven’t I al­ready told you,” said Rid­dle qui­et­ly, “that killing Mud­bloods doesn’t mat­ter to me any­more? For many months now, my new tar­get has been — you.”

Har­ry stared at him.

“Imag­ine how an­gry I was when the next time my di­ary was opened, it was Gin­ny who was writ­ing to me, not you. She saw you with the di­ary, you see, and pan­icked. What if you found out how to work it, and I re­peat­ed all her se­crets to you? What if, even worse, I told you who’d been stran­gling roost­ers? So the fool­ish lit­tle brat wait­ed un­til your dor­mi­to­ry was de­sert­ed and stole it back. But I knew what I must do. It was clear to me that you were on the trail of Slytherin’s heir. From ev­ery­thing Gin­ny had told me about you, I knew you would go to any lengths to solve the mys­tery — par­tic­ular­ly if one of your best friends was at­tacked. And Gin­ny had told me the whole school was buzzing be­cause you could speak Parsel­tongue ….

“So I made Gin­ny write her own farewell on the wall and come down here to wait. She strug­gled and cried and be­came very bor­ing. But there isn’t much life left in her… She put too much in­to the di­ary, in­to me. Enough to let me leave its pages at last… I have been wait­ing for you to ap­pear since we ar­rived here. I knew you’d come. I have many ques­tions for you, Har­ry Pot­ter.”

“Like what?” Har­ry spat, fists still clenched.

“Well,” said Rid­dle, smil­ing pleas­ant­ly, “how is it that you — a skin­ny boy with no ex­traor­di­nary mag­ical tal­ent — man­aged to de­feat the great­est wiz­ard of all time? How did you es­cape with noth­ing but a scar, while Lord Volde­mort’s pow­ers were de­stroyed?”

There was an odd red gleam in his hun­gry eyes now.

“Why do you care how I es­caped?” said Har­ry slow­ly. “Volde­mort was af­ter your time…”

“Volde­mort,” said Rid­dle soft­ly, “is my past, present, and fu­ture, Har­ry Pot­ter…”

He pulled Har­ry’s wand from his pock­et and be­gan to trace it through the air, writ­ing three shim­mer­ing words:

TOM MAR­VO­LO RID­DLE

Then he waved the wand once, and the let­ters of his name re­ar­ranged them­selves:

I AM LORD VOLDE­MORT

“You see?” he whis­pered. “It was a name I was al­ready us­ing at Hog­warts, to my most in­ti­mate friends on­ly, of course. You think I was go­ing to use my filthy Mug­gle fa­ther’s name for­ev­er? I, in whose veins runs the blood of Salazar Slytherin him­self, through my moth­er’s side? I, keep the name of a foul, com­mon Mug­gle, who aban­doned me even be­fore I was born, just be­cause he found out his wife was a witch? No, Har­ry — I fash­ioned my­self a new name, a name I knew wiz­ards ev­ery­where would one day fear to speak, when I had be­come the great­est sor­cer­er in the world!”

Har­ry’s brain seemed to have jammed. He stared numbly at Rid­dle, at the or­phaned boy who had grown up to mur­der Har­ry’s own par­ents, and so many oth­ers…At last he forced him­self to speak.

“You’re not,” he said, his qui­et voice full of ha­tred.

“Not what?” snapped Rid­dle.

“Not the great­est sor­cer­er in the world,” said Har­ry, breath­ing fast. “Sor­ry to dis­ap­point you and all that, but the great­est wiz­ard in the world is Al­bus Dum­ble­dore. Ev­ery­one says so. Even when you were strong, you didn’t dare try and take over at Hog­warts. Dum­ble­dore saw through you when you were at school and he still fright­ens you now, wher­ev­er you’re hid­ing these days —”

The smile had gone from Rid­dle’s face, to be re­placed by a very ug­ly look.

“Dum­ble­dore’s been driv­en out of this cas­tle by the mere mem­ory of me!” he hissed.

“He’s not as gone as you might think!” Har­ry re­tort­ed. He was speak­ing at ran­dom, want­ing to scare Rid­dle, wish­ing rather than be­liev­ing it to be true.

Rid­dle opened his mouth, but froze.

Mu­sic was com­ing from some­where. Rid­dle whirled around to stare down the emp­ty Cham­ber. The mu­sic was grow­ing loud­er. It was eerie, spine-​tin­gling, un­earth­ly; it lift­ed the hair on Har­ry’s scalp and made his heart feel as though it was swelling to twice its nor­mal size. Then, as the mu­sic reached such a pitch that Har­ry felt it vi­brat­ing in­side his own ribs, flames erupt­ed at the top of the near­est pil­lar.

A crim­son bird the size of a swan had ap­peared, pip­ing its weird mu­sic to the vault­ed ceil­ing. It had a glit­ter­ing gold­en tail as long as a pea­cock’s and gleam­ing gold­en talons, which were grip­ping a ragged bun­dle.

A sec­ond lat­er, the bird was fly­ing straight at Har­ry. It dropped the ragged thing it was car­ry­ing at his feet, then land­ed heav­ily on his shoul­der. As it fold­ed its great wings, Har­ry looked up and saw it had a long, sharp gold­en beak and a beady black eye.

The bird stopped singing. It sat still and warm next to Har­ry’s cheek, gaz­ing steadi­ly at Rid­dle.

“That’s a phoenix.” said Rid­dle, star­ing shrewd­ly back at it.

“Fawkes?” Har­ry breathed, and he felt the bird’s gold­en claws squeeze his shoul­der gen­tly.

“And that —” said Rid­dle, now eye­ing the ragged thing that Fawkes had dropped, “that’s the old school Sort­ing Hat —”

So it was. Patched, frayed, and dirty, the hat lay mo­tion­less at Har­ry’s feet.

Rid­dle be­gan to laugh again. He laughed so hard that the dark cham­ber rang with it, as though ten Rid­dles were laugh­ing at once.

“This is what Dum­ble­dore sends his de­fend­er! A song­bird and an old hat! Do you feel brave, Har­ry Pot­ter? Do you feel safe now?”

Har­ry didn’t an­swer. He might not see what use Fawkes or the Sort­ing Hat were, but he was no longer alone, and he wait­ed for Rid­dle to stop laugh­ing with his courage mount­ing.

“To busi­ness, Har­ry,” said Rid­dle, still smil­ing broad­ly. “Twice — in your past, in my fu­ture — we have met. And twice I failed to kill you. How did you sur­vive? Tell me ev­ery­thing. The longer you talk,” he added soft­ly, “the longer you stay alive.”

Har­ry was think­ing fast, weigh­ing his chances. Rid­dle had the wand. He, Har­ry, had Fawkes and the Sort­ing Hat, nei­ther of which would be much good in a du­el. It looked bad, all right…but the longer Rid­dle stood there, the more life was dwin­dling out of Gin­ny…and in the mean­time, Har­ry no­ticed sud­den­ly, Rid­dle’s out­line was be­com­ing clear­er, more sol­id…If it had to be a fight be­tween him and Rid­dle, bet­ter soon­er than lat­er.

“No one knows why you lost your pow­ers when you at­tacked me,” said Har­ry abrupt­ly. “I don’t know my­self. But I know why you couldn’t kill me. Be­cause my moth­er died to save me. My com­mon Mug­gle-​born moth­er,” he added, shak­ing with sup­pressed rage. “She stopped you killing me. And I’ve seen the re­al you, I saw you last year. You’re a wreck. You’re bare­ly alive. That’s where all your pow­er got you. You’re in hid­ing. You’re ug­ly, you’re foul —”

Rid­dle’s face con­tort­ed. Then he forced it in­to an aw­ful smile. “So. Your moth­er died to save you. Yes, that’s a pow­er­ful coun­ter­charm. I can see now…there is noth­ing spe­cial about you, af­ter all. I won­dered, you see. There are strange like­ness­es be­tween us, af­ter all. Even you must have no­ticed. Both half-​bloods, or­phans, raised by Mug­gles. Prob­ably the on­ly two Parsel­mouths to come to Hog­warts since the great Slytherin him­self We even look some­thing alike…but af­ter all, it was mere­ly a lucky chance that saved you from me. That’s all I want­ed to know.”

Har­ry stood, tense, wait­ing for Rid­dle to raise his wand. But Rid­dle’s twist­ed smile was widen­ing again.

“Now, Har­ry, I’m go­ing to teach you a lit­tle les­son. Let’s match the pow­ers of Lord Volde­mort, Heir of Salazar Slytherin, against fa­mous Har­ry Pot­ter, and the best weapons Dum­ble­dore can give him…”

He cast an amused eye over Fawkes and the Sort­ing Hat, then walked away. Har­ry, fear spread­ing up his numb legs, watched Rid­dle stop be­tween the high pil­lars and look up in­to the stone face of Slytherin, high above him in the half-​dark­ness. Rid­dle opened his mouth wide and hissed — but Har­ry un­der­stood what he was say­ing ….

“Speak to me, Slytherin, great­est of the Hog­warts Four.”

Har­ry wheeled around to look up at the stat­ue, Fawkes sway­ing on his shoul­der.

Slytherin’s gi­gan­tic stone face was mov­ing. Hor­rorstruck, Har­ry saw his mouth open­ing, wider and wider, to make a huge black hole.

And some­thing was stir­ring in­side the stat­ue’s mouth. Some­thing was slith­er­ing up from its depths.

Har­ry backed away un­til he hit the dark Cham­ber wall, and as he shut his eyes tight he felt Fawkes’ wing sweep his cheek as he took flight. Har­ry want­ed to shout, “Don’t leave me!” but what chance did a phoenix have against the king of ser­pents?

Some­thing huge hit the stone floor of the Cham­ber. Har­ry felt it shud­der — he knew what was hap­pen­ing, he could sense it, could al­most see the gi­ant ser­pent un­coil­ing it­self from Slytherin’s mouth. Then he heard Rid­dle’s hiss­ing voice:

“Kill him.”

The basilisk was mov­ing to­ward Har­ry; he could hear its heavy body slith­er­ing heav­ily across the dusty floor. Eyes still tight­ly shut, Har­ry be­gan to run blind­ly side­ways, his hands out­stretched, feel­ing his way — Volde­mort was laugh­ing.

Har­ry tripped. He fell hard on­to the stone and tast­ed blood the ser­pent was bare­ly feet from him, he could hear it com­ing.

There was a loud, ex­plo­sive spit­ting sound right above him, and then some­thing heavy hit Har­ry so hard that he was smashed in­to the wall. Wait­ing for fangs to sink through his body he heard more mad hiss­ing, some­thing thrash­ing wild­ly off the pil­lars.

He couldn’t help it — he opened his eyes wide enough to squint at what was go­ing on.

The enor­mous ser­pent, bright, poi­sonous green, thick as an oak trunk, had raised it­self high in the air and its great blunt head was weav­ing drunk­en­ly be­tween the pil­lars. As Har­ry trem­bled, ready to close his eyes if it turned, he saw what had dis­tract­ed the snake.

Fawkes was soar­ing around its head, and the basilisk was snap­ping fu­ri­ous­ly at him with fangs long and thin as sabers Fawkes dived. His long gold­en beak sank out of sight and a sud­den show­er of dark blood spat­tered the floor. The snake’s tail thrashed, nar­row­ly miss­ing Har­ry, and be­fore Har­ry could shut his eyes, it turned — Har­ry looked straight in­to its face and saw that its eyes, both its great, bul­bous yel­low eyes, had been punc­tured by the phoenix; blood was stream­ing to the floor, and the snake was spit­ting in agony.

“NO!” Har­ry heard Rid­dle scream­ing. “LEAVE THE BIRD! LEAVE THE BIRD! THE BOY IS BE­HIND YOU. YOU CAN STILL SMELL HIM. KILL HIM!”

The blind­ed ser­pent swayed, con­fused, still dead­ly. Fawkes was cir­cling its head, pip­ing his eerie song, jab­bing here and there at its scaly nose as the blood poured from its ru­ined eyes.

“Help me, help me,” Har­ry mut­tered wild­ly, “some­one — any­one…”

The snake’s tail whipped across the floor again. Har­ry ducked. Some­thing soft hit his face.

The basilisk had swept the Sort­ing Hat in­to Har­ry’s arms. Har­ry seized it. It was all he had left, his on­ly chance — he rammed it on­to his head and threw him­self flat on­to the floor as the basilisk’s tail swung over him again.

Help me — help me — Har­ry thought, his eyes screwed tight un­der the hat. Please help me.

There was no an­swer­ing voice. In­stead, the hat con­tract­ed, as though an in­vis­ible hand was squeez­ing it very tight­ly.

Some­thing very hard and heavy thud­ded on­to the top of Har­ry’s head, al­most knock­ing him out. Stars wink­ing in front of his eyes, he grabbed the top of the hat to pull it off and felt some­thing long and hard be­neath it.

A gleam­ing sil­ver sword had ap­peared in­side the hat, its han­dle glit­ter­ing with ru­bies the size of eggs.

“KILL THE BOY! LEAVE THE BIRD! THE BOY IS BE­HIND YOU. SNIFF — SMELL HIM.”

Har­ry was on his feet, ready. The basilisk’s head was falling, its body coil­ing around, hit­ting pil­lars as it twist­ed to face him. He could see the vast, bloody eye sock­ets, see the mouth stretch­ing wide, wide enough to swal­low him whole, lined with fangs long as his sword, thin, glit­ter­ing, ven­omous —

It lunged blind­ly — Har­ry dodged and it hit the Cham­ber wall. It lunged again, and its forked tongue lashed Har­ry’s side. He raised the sword in both his hands —

The basilisk lunged again, and this time its aim was true — Har­ry threw his whole weight be­hind the sword and drove it to the hilt in­to the roof of the ser­pent’s mouth —

But as warm blood drenched Har­ry’s arms, he felt a sear­ing pain just above his el­bow. One long, poi­sonous fang was sink­ing deep­er and deep­er in­to his arm and it splin­tered as the basilisk keeled over side­ways and fell, twitch­ing, to the floor.

Har­ry slid down the wall. He gripped the fang that was spread­ing poi­son through his body and wrenched it out of his arm. But he knew it was too late. White-​hot pain was spread­ing slow­ly and steadi­ly from the wound. Even as he dropped the fang and watched his own blood soak­ing his robes, his vi­sion went fog­gy. The Cham­ber was dis­solv­ing in a whirl of dull col­or.

A patch of scar­let swam past, and Har­ry heard a soft clat­ter of claws be­side him.

“Fawkes,” said Har­ry thick­ly. “You were fan­tas­tic, Fawkes…”

He felt the bird lay its beau­ti­ful head on the spot where the ser­pent’s fang had pierced him.

He could hear echo­ing foot­steps and then a dark shad­ow moved in front of him.

“You’re dead, Har­ry Pot­ter,” said Rid­dle’s voice above him. “Dead. Even Dum­ble­dore’s bird knows it. Do you see what he’s do­ing, Pot­ter? He’s cry­ing.”

Har­ry blinked. Fawke’s head slid in and out of fo­cus. Thick, pearly tears were trick­ling down the glossy feath­ers.

“I’m go­ing to sit here and watch you die, Har­ry Pot­ter. Take your time. I’m in no hur­ry.”

Har­ry felt drowsy. Ev­ery­thing around him seemed to be spin­ning.

“So ends the fa­mous Har­ry Pot­ter,” said Rid­dle’s dis­tant voice. “Alone in the Cham­ber of Se­crets, for­sak­en by his friends, de­feat­ed at last by the Dark Lord he so un­wise­ly chal­lenged. You’ll be back with your dear Mud­blood moth­er soon, Har­ry… She bought you twelve years of bor­rowed time… but Lord Volde­mort got you in the end, as you knew he must…”

If this is dy­ing, thought Har­ry, it’s not so bad.

Even the pain was leav­ing him….

But was this dy­ing? In­stead of go­ing black, the Cham­ber seemed to be com­ing back in­to fo­cus. Har­ry gave his head a lit­tle shake and there was Fawkes, still rest­ing his head on Har­ry’s arm. A pearly patch of tears was shin­ing all around the wound — ex­cept that there was no wound.

“Get away, bird,” said Rid­dle’s voice sud­den­ly. “Get away from him — I said, get away —”

Har­ry raised his head. Rid­dle was point­ing Har­ry’s wand at Fawkes; there was a bang like a gun, and Fawkes took flight again in a whirl of gold and scar­let.

“Phoenix tears…” said Rid­dle qui­et­ly, star­ing at Har­ry’s arm. “Of course…heal­ing pow­ers…I for­got…”

He looked in­to Har­ry’s face. “But it makes no dif­fer­ence. In fact, I pre­fer it this way. Just you and me, Har­ry Pot­ter…you and me….”

He raised the wand …

Then, in a rush of wings, Fawkes had soared back over­head and some­thing fell in­to Har­ry’s lap — the di­ary.

For a split sec­ond, both Har­ry and Rid­dle, wand still raised, stared at it. Then, with­out think­ing, with­out con­sid­er­ing, as though he had meant to do it all along, Har­ry seized the basilisk fang on the floor next to him and plunged it straight in­to the heart of the book.

There was a long, dread­ful, pierc­ing scream. Ink spurt­ed out of the di­ary in tor­rents, stream­ing over Har­ry’s hands, flood­ing the floor. Rid­dle was writhing and twist­ing, scream­ing and flail­ing and then —

He had gone. Har­ry’s wand fell to the floor with a clat­ter and there was si­lence. Si­lence ex­cept for the steady drip drip of ink still ooz­ing from the di­ary. The basilisk ven­om had burned a siz­zling hole right through it.

Shak­ing all over, Har­ry pulled him­self up. His head was spin­ning as though he’d just trav­eled miles by Floo pow­der. Slow­ly, he gath­ered to­geth­er his wand and the Sort­ing Hat, and, with a huge tug, re­trieved the glit­ter­ing sword from the roof of the basilisk’s mouth.

Then came a faint moan from the end of the Cham­ber. Gin­ny was stir­ring. As Har­ry hur­ried to­ward her, she sat up. Her be­mused eyes trav­eled from the huge form of the dead basilisk, over Har­ry, in his blood-​soaked robes, then to the di­ary in his hand. She drew a great, shud­der­ing gasp and tears be­gan to pour down her face.

“Har­ry — oh, Har­ry — I tried to tell you at b-​break­fast, but I c-​couldn’t say it in front of Per­cy — it was me, Har­ry — but I — I s-​swear I d-​didn’t mean to — R-​Rid­dle made me, he t-​took me over — and — how did you kill that — that thing? W-​where’s Rid­dle? The last thing I r-​re­mem­ber is him com­ing out of the di­ary —”

“ It’s all right,” said Har­ry, hold­ing up the di­ary, and show­ing Gin­ny the fang hole, “Rid­dle’s fin­ished. Look! Him and the basilisk. C’mon, Gin­ny, let’s get out of here —”

“I’m go­ing to be ex­pelled!” Gin­ny wept as Har­ry helped her awk­ward­ly to her feet. “I’ve looked for­ward to com­ing to Hog­warts ev­er since B-​Bill came and n-​now I’ll have to leave and — w-​what’ll Mum and Dad say?”

Fawkes was wait­ing for them, hov­er­ing in the Cham­ber en­trance. Har­ry urged Gin­ny for­ward; they stepped over the mo­tion­less coils of the dead basilisk, through the echo­ing gloom, and back in­to the tun­nel. Har­ry heard the stone doors close be­hind them with a soft hiss.

Af­ter a few min­utes’ progress up the dark tun­nel, a dis­tant sound of slow­ly shift­ing rock reached Har­ry’s ears.

“Ron!” Har­ry yelled, speed­ing up. “Gin­ny’s okay! I’ve got her!”

He heard Ron give a stran­gled cheer, and they turned the next bend to see his ea­ger face star­ing through the siz­able gap he had man­aged to make in the rock fall.

“Gin­ny!” Ron thrust an arm through the gap in the rock to pull her through first. “You’re alive! I don’t be­lieve it! What hap­pened?” How — what — where did that bird come from?”

Fawkes had swooped through the gap af­ter Gin­ny.

“He’s Dum­ble­dore’s,” said Har­ry, squeez­ing through him­self.

“How come you’ve got a sword?” said Ron, gap­ing at the glit­ter­ing weapon in Har­ry’s hand.

“I’ll ex­plain when we get out of here,” said Har­ry with a side­ways glance at Gin­ny, who was cry­ing hard­er than ev­er.

“But —”

“Lat­er,” Har­ry said short­ly. He didn’t think it was a good idea to tell Ron yet who’d been open­ing the Cham­ber, not in front of Gin­ny, any­way. “Where’s Lock­hart?”

“Back there,” said Ron, still look­ing puz­zled but jerk­ing his head up the tun­nel to­ward the pipe. “He’s in a bad way. Come and see.”

Led by Fawkes, whose wide scar­let wings emit­ted a soft gold­en glow in the dark­ness, they walked all the way back to the mouth of the pipe. Gilderoy Lock­hart was sit­ting there, hum­ming placid­ly to him­self.

“His mem­ory’s gone,” said Ron. “The Mem­ory Charm back­fired. Hit him in­stead of us. Hasn’t got a clue who he is, or where he is, or who we are. I told him to come and wait here. He’s a dan­ger to him­self.”

Lock­hart peered good-​na­tured­ly up at them all.

“Hel­lo,” he said. “Odd sort of place, this, isn’t it? Do you live here?”

“No,” said Ron, rais­ing his eye­brows at Har­ry.

Har­ry bent down and looked up the long, dark pipe.

“Have you thought how we’re go­ing to get back up this?” he said to Ron.

Ron shook his head, but Fawkes the phoenix had swooped past Har­ry and was now flut­ter­ing in front of him, his beady eyes bright in the dark. He was wav­ing his long gold­en tail feath­ers. Har­ry looked un­cer­tain­ly at him.

“He looks like he wants you to grab hold…” said Ron, look­ing per­plexed. “But you’re much too heavy for a bird to pull up there —”

“Fawkes,” said Har­ry, “isn’t an or­di­nary bird.” He turned quick­ly to the oth­ers. “We’ve got to hold on to each oth­er. Gin­ny, grab Ron’s hand. Pro­fes­sor Lock­hart —”

“He means you,” said Ron sharply to Lock­hart.

“You hold Gin­ny’s oth­er hand —”

Har­ry tucked the sword and the Sort­ing Hat in­to his belt, Ron took hold of the back of Har­ry’s robes, and Har­ry reached out and took hold of Fawkes’s strange­ly hot tail feath­ers.

An ex­traor­di­nary light­ness seemed to spread through his whole body and the next sec­ond, in a rush of wings, they were fly­ing up­ward through the pipe. Har­ry could hear Lock­hart dan­gling be­low him, say­ing, “Amaz­ing! Amaz­ing! This is just like mag­ic!” The chill air was whip­ping through Har­ry’s hair, and be­fore he’d stopped en­joy­ing the ride, it was over — all four of them were hit­ting the wet floor of Moan­ing Myr­tle’s bath­room, and as Lock­hart straight­ened his hat, the sink that hid the pipe was slid­ing back in­to place.

Myr­tle gog­gled at them.

“You’re alive,” she said blankly to Har­ry.

“There’s no need to sound so dis­ap­point­ed,” he said grim­ly, wip­ing flecks of blood and slime off his glass­es.

“Oh, well…I’d just been think­ing…if you had died, you’d have been wel­come to share my toi­let,” said Myr­tle, blush­ing sil­ver.

“Urgh!” said Ron as they left the bath­room for the dark, de­sert­ed cor­ri­dor out­side. “Har­ry! I think Myr­tle’s grown fond of you! You’ve got com­pe­ti­tion, Gin­ny!”

But tears were still flood­ing silent­ly down Gin­ny’s face.

“Where now?” said Ron, with an anx­ious look at Gin­ny. Har­ry point­ed.

Fawkes was lead­ing the way, glow­ing gold along the cor­ri­dor. They strode af­ter him, and mo­ments lat­er, found them­selves out­side Pro­fes­sor McG­ona­gall’s of­fice.

Har­ry knocked and pushed the door open.





CHAP­TER EIGH­TEEN



DOB­BY’S RE­WARD



For a mo­ment there was si­lence as Har­ry, Ron, Gin­ny, and Lock­hart stood in the door­way, cov­ered in muck and slime and (in Har­ry’s case) blood. Then there was a scream.

“Gin­ny!”

It was Mrs. Weasley, who had been sit­ting cry­ing in front of the fire. She leapt to her feet, close­ly fol­lowed by Mr. Weasley, and both of them flung them­selves on their

daugh­ter.

Har­ry, how­ev­er, was look­ing past them. Pro­fes­sor Dum­ble­dore was stand­ing by the man­tel­piece, beam­ing, next to Pro­fes­sor McG­ona­gall, who was tak­ing great, steady­ing gasps, clutch­ing her chest. Fawkes went whoosh­ing past Har­ry’s ear and set­tled on Dum­ble­dore’s shoul­der, just as Har­ry found him­self and Ron be­ing swept in­to Mrs. Weasley’s tight em­brace.

“You saved her! You saved her! How did you do it?”

“I think we’d all like to know that,” said Pro­fes­sor McG­ona­gall weak­ly.

Mrs. Weasley let go of Har­ry, who hes­itat­ed for a mo­ment, then walked over to the desk and laid up­on it the Sort­ing Hat, the ru­by-​en­crust­ed sword, and what re­mained of Rid­dle’s di­ary.

Then he start­ed telling them ev­ery­thing. For near­ly a quar­ter of an hour he spoke in­to the rapt si­lence: He told them about hear­ing the dis­em­bod­ied voice, how Hermione had fi­nal­ly re­al­ized that he was hear­ing a basilisk in the pipes; how he and Ron had fol­lowed the spi­ders in­to the for­est, that Ar­agog had told them where the last vic­tim of the basilisk had died; how he had guessed that Moan­ing Myr­tle had been the vic­tim, and that the en­trance to the Cham­ber of Se­crets might be in her bath­room…

“Very well,” Pro­fes­sor McG­ona­gall prompt­ed him as he paused, “so you found out where the en­trance was —break­ing a hun­dred school rules in­to pieces along the way, I might add — but how on earth did you all get out of there alive, Pot­ter?”

So Har­ry, his voice now grow­ing hoarse from all this talk­ing, told them about Fawkes’s time­ly ar­rival and about the Sort­ing Hat giv­ing him the sword. But then he fal­tered. He had so far avoid­ed men­tion­ing Rid­dle’s di­ary — or Gin­ny. She was stand­ing with her head against Mrs. Weasley’s shoul­der, and tears were still cours­ing silent­ly down her cheeks. What if they ex­pelled her? Har­ry thought in pan­ic. Rid­dle’s di­ary didn’t work any­more…How could they prove it had been he who’d made her do it all?

In­stinc­tive­ly, Har­ry looked at Dum­ble­dore, who smiled faint­ly, the fire­light glanc­ing off his half-​moon spec­ta­cles.

“What in­ter­ests me most,” said Dum­ble­dore gen­tly, “is how Lord Volde­mort man­aged to en­chant Gin­ny, when my sources tell me he is cur­rent­ly in hid­ing in the forests of Al­ba­nia.”

Re­lief — warm, sweep­ing, glo­ri­ous re­lief – swept over Har­ry. “W-​what’s that?” said Mr. Weasley in a stunned voice. “You-​Know-​Who? En-​en­chant Gin­ny? But Gin­ny’s not … Gin­ny hasn’t been … has she?”

“It was this di­ary,” said Har­ry quick­ly, pick­ing it up and show­ing it to Dum­ble­dore. “Rid­dle wrote it when he was six­teen…”

Dum­ble­dore took the di­ary from Har­ry and peered keen­ly down his long, crooked nose at its burnt and sog­gy pages.

“Bril­liant,” he said soft­ly. “Of course, he was prob­ably the most bril­liant stu­dent Hog­warts has ev­er seen.” He turned around to the Weasleys, who were look­ing ut­ter­ly be­wil­dered.

“Very few peo­ple know that Lord Volde­mort was once called Tom Rid­dle. I taught him my­self, fifty years ago, at Hog­warts. He dis­ap­peared af­ter leav­ing the school… trav­eled far and wide…sank so deeply in­to the Dark Arts, con­sort­ed with the very worst of our kind, un­der­went so many dan­ger­ous, mag­ical trans­for­ma­tions, that when he resur­faced as Lord Volde­mort, he was bare­ly rec­og­niz­able. Hard­ly any­one con­nect­ed Lord Volde­mort with the clever, hand­some boy who was once Head Boy here.”

“But, Gin­ny,” said Mrs. Weasley. “What’s our Gin­ny got to do with — with — him?”

“His d-​di­ary” Gin­ny sobbed. “I’ve b-​been writ­ing in it, and he’s been w-​writ­ing back all year —”

“Gin­ny!” said Mr. Weasley, flab­ber­gast­ed. “Haven’t I taught you any­thing. What have I al­ways told you? Nev­er trust any­thing that can think for it­self if you can’t see where it keeps its brain? Why didn’t you show the di­ary to me, or your moth­er? A sus­pi­cious ob­ject like that, it was clear­ly full of Dark Mag­ic!’

“I d-​didn’t know,” sobbed Gin­ny. “I found it in­side one of the books Mum got me. I th-​thought some­one had just left it in there and for­got­ten about it —”

“Miss Weasley should go up to the hos­pi­tal wing right away,” Dum­ble­dore in­ter­rupt­ed in a firm voice. “This has been a ter­ri­ble or­deal for her. There will be no pun­ish­ment. Old­er and wis­er wiz­ards than she have been hood­winked by Lord Volde­mort.” He strode over to the door and opened it. “Bed rest and per­haps a large, steam­ing mug of hot choco­late. I al­ways find that cheers me up,” he added, twin­kling kind­ly down at her. “You will find that Madam Pom­frey is still awake. She’s just giv­ing out Man­drake juice — I dare­say the basilisk’s vic­tims will be wak­ing up any mo­ment.”

“So Hermione’s okay!” said Ron bright­ly.

“There has been no last­ing harm done, Gin­ny,” said Dum­ble­dore.

Mrs. Weasley led Gin­ny out, and Mr. Weasley fol­lowed, still look­ing deeply shak­en.

“You know, Min­er­va,” Pro­fes­sor Dum­ble­dore said thought­ful­ly to Pro­fes­sor McG­ona­gall, “I think all this mer­its a good feast. Might I ask you to go and alert the kitchens?”

“Right,” said Pro­fes­sor McG­ona­gall crisply, al­so mov­ing to the door. “I’ll leave you to deal with Pot­ter and Weasley, shall I?”

“Cer­tain­ly,” said Dum­ble­dore.

She left, and Har­ry and Ron gazed un­cer­tain­ly at Dum­ble­dore. What ex­act­ly had Pro­fes­sor McG­ona­gall meant, deal with them? Sure­ly — sure­ly — they weren’t about to be pun­ished?

“I seem to re­mem­ber telling you both that I would have to ex­pel you if you broke any more school rules, said Dum­ble­dore.

Ron opened his mouth in hor­ror.

“Which goes to show that the best of us must some­times eat our words,” Dum­ble­dore went on, smil­ing. “You will both re­ceive Spe­cial Awards for Ser­vices to the School and — let me see — yes, I think two hun­dred points apiece for Gryffind­or.”

Ron went as bright­ly pink as Lock­hart’s valen­tine flow­ers and closed his mouth again.

“But one of us seems to be keep­ing might­ily qui­et about his part in this dan­ger­ous ad­ven­ture,” Dum­ble­dore added. “Why so mod­est, Gilderoy?”

Har­ry gave a start. He had com­plete­ly for­got­ten about Lock­hart. He turned and saw that Lock­hart was stand­ing in a cor­ner of the room, still wear­ing his vague smile. When Dum­ble­dore ad­dressed him, Lock­hart looked over his shoul­der to see who he was talk­ing to.

“Pro­fes­sor Dum­ble­dore,” Ron said quick­ly, “there was an ac­ci­dent down in the Cham­ber of Se­crets. Pro­fes­sor Lock­hart —”

“Am I a pro­fes­sor?” said Lock­hart in mild sur­prise. “Good­ness. I ex­pect I was hope­less, was I?”

“He tried to do a Mem­ory Charm and the wand back­fired,” Ron ex­plained qui­et­ly to Dum­ble­dore.

“Dear me,” said Dum­ble­dore, shak­ing his head, his long sil­ver mus­tache quiv­er­ing. “Im­paled up­on your own sword, Gilderoy!”

“Sword?” said Lock­hart dim­ly. “Haven’t got a sword. That boy has, though.” He point­ed at Har­ry. “He’ll lend you one.”

“Would you mind tak­ing Pro­fes­sor Lock­hart up to the in­fir­mary, too?” Dum­ble­dore said to Ron. “I’d like a few more words with Har­ry…”

Lock­hart am­bled out. Ron cast a cu­ri­ous look back at Dum­ble­dore and Har­ry as he closed the door.

Dum­ble­dore crossed to one of the chairs by the fire.

“Sit down, Har­ry,” he said, and Har­ry sat, feel­ing un­ac­count­ably ner­vous.

“First of all, Har­ry, I want to thank you,” said Dum­ble­dore, eyes twin­kling again. “You must have shown me re­al loy­al­ty down in the Cham­ber. Noth­ing but that could have called Fawkes to you.”

He stroked the phoenix, which had flut­tered down on­to his knee. Har­ry grinned awk­ward­ly as Dum­ble­dore watched him.

“And so you met Tom Rid­dle,” said Dum­ble­dore thought­ful­ly. “I imag­ine he was most in­ter­est­ed in you…”

Sud­den­ly, some­thing that was nag­ging at Har­ry came tum­bling out of his mouth.

“Pro­fes­sor Dum­ble­dore…Rid­dle said I’m like him. Strange like­ness­es, he said…

“Did he, now?” said Dum­ble­dore, look­ing thought­ful­ly at Har­ry from un­der his thick sil­ver eye­brows. “And what do you think, Har­ry?”

“I don’t think I’m like him!” said Har­ry, more loud­ly than he’d in­tend­ed. “I mean, I’m — I’m in Gryffind­or, I’m…”

But he fell silent, a lurk­ing doubt resur­fac­ing in his mind.

“Pro­fes­sor,” he start­ed again af­ter a mo­ment. “The Sort­ing Hat told me I’d — I’d have done well in Slytherin. Ev­ery­one thought I was Slytherin’s heir for a while … be­cause I can speak Parsel­tongue …”

“You can speak Parsel­tongue, Har­ry,” said Dum­ble­dore calm­ly, “be­cause Lord Volde­mort — who is the last re­main­ing an­ces­tor of Salazar Slytherin — can speak Parsel­tongue. Un­less I’m much mis­tak­en, he trans­ferred some of his own pow­ers to you the night he gave you that scar. Not some­thing he in­tend­ed to do, I’m sure…”

“Volde­mort put a bit of him­self in me?” Har­ry said, thun­der­struck.

“It cer­tain­ly seems so.”

“So I should be in Slytherin,” Har­ry said, look­ing des­per­ate­ly in­to Dum­ble­dore’s face. “The Sort­ing Hat could see Slytherin’s pow­er in me, and it —”

“Put you in Gryffind­or,” said Dum­ble­dore calm­ly. “Lis­ten to me, Har­ry. You hap­pen to have many qual­ities Salazar Slytherin prized in his hand-​picked stu­dents. His own very rare gift, Parsel­tongue — re­source­ful­ness — de­ter­mi­na­tion — a cer­tain dis­re­gard for rules,” he added, his mus­tache quiv­er­ing again. “Yet the Sort­ing Hat placed you in Gryffind­or. You know why that was. Think.”

“It on­ly put me in Gryffind­or,” said Har­ry in a de­feat­ed voice, “be­cause I asked not to go in Slytherin…”

`Ex­act­ly, “said Dum­ble­dore, beam­ing once more. “Which makes you very dif­fer­ent from Tom Rid­dle. It is our choic­es, Har­ry, that show what we tru­ly are, far more than our abil­ities.” Har­ry sat mo­tion­less in his chair, stunned. “If you want proof, Har­ry, that you be­long in Gryffind­or, I sug­gest you look more close­ly at this.”

Dum­ble­dore reached across to Pro­fes­sor McG­ona­gall’s desk, picked up the blood-​stained sil­ver sword, and hand­ed it to Har­ry. Dul­ly, Har­ry turned it over, the ru­bies blaz­ing in the fire­light. And then he saw the name en­graved just be­low the hilt.

Go­dric Gryffind­or

“On­ly a true Gryffind­or could have pulled that out of the hat, Har­ry,” said Dum­ble­dore sim­ply.

For a minute, nei­ther of them spoke. Then Dum­ble­dore pulled open one of the draw­ers in Pro­fes­sor McG­ona­gall’s desk and took out a quill and a bot­tle of ink.

“What you need, Har­ry, is some food and sleep. I sug­gest you go down to the feast, while I write to Azk­aban —we need our game­keep­er back. And I must draft an ad­ver­tise­ment for the Dai­ly Prophet, too,” he added Thought­ful­ly. “We’ll be need­ing a new De­fense Against the Dark Arts teach­er… Dear me, we do seem to run through them, don’t we?”

Har­ry got up and crossed to the door. He had just reached for the han­dle, how­ev­er, when the door burst open so vi­olent­ly that it bounced back off the wall.

Lu­cius Mal­foy stood there, fury in his face. And cow­er­ing be­hind his legs, heav­ily wrapped in ban­dages, was Dob­by.

“Good evening, Lu­cius,” said Dum­ble­dore pleas­ant­ly.

Mr. Mal­foy al­most knocked Har­ry over as he swept in­to the room. Dob­by went scur­ry­ing in af­ter him, crouch­ing at the hem of his cloak, a look of ab­ject ter­ror on his face.

The elf was car­ry­ing a stained rag with which he was at­tempt­ing to fin­ish clean­ing Mr. Mal­foys shoes. Ap­par­ent­ly Mr. Mal­foy had set out in a great hur­ry, for not on­ly were his shoes half-​pol­ished, but his usu­al­ly sleek hair was di­sheveled. Ig­nor­ing the elf bob­bing apolo­get­ical­ly around his an­kles, he fixed his cold eyes up­on Dum­ble­dore.

“So!” he said “You’ve come back. The gov­er­nors sus­pend­ed you, but you still saw fit to re­turn to Hog­warts.”

“Well, you see, Lu­cius,” said Dum­ble­dore, smil­ing serene­ly, “the oth­er eleven gov­er­nors con­tact­ed me to­day. It was some­thing like be­ing caught in a hail­storm of owls, to tell the truth. They’d heard that Arthur Weasleys daugh­ter had been killed and want­ed me back here at once. They seemed to think I was the best man for the job af­ter all. Very strange tales they told me, too…Sev­er­al of them seemed to think that you had threat­ened to curse their fam­ilies if they didn’t agree to sus­pend me in the first place.”

Mr. Mal­foy went even paler than usu­al, but his eyes were still slits of fury.

“So — have you stopped the at­tacks yet?” he sneered. “Have you caught the cul­prit?”

“We have,” said Dum­ble­dore, with a smile.

“Well?” said Mr. Mal­foy sharply. “Who is it?”

“The same per­son as last time, Lu­cius,” said Dum­ble­dore. “But this time, Lord Volde­mort was act­ing through some­body else. By means of this di­ary.”

He held up the small black book with the large hole through the cen­ter, watch­ing Mr. Mal­foy close­ly. Har­ry, how­ev­er, was watch­ing Dob­by.

The elf was do­ing some­thing very odd. His great eyes fixed mean­ing­ful­ly on Har­ry, he kept point­ing at the di­ary, then at Mr. Mal­foy, and then hit­ting him­self hard on the head with his fist.

“I see…” said Mr. Mal­foy slow­ly to Dum­ble­dore.

“A clever plan,” said Dum­ble­dore in a lev­el voice, still star­ing Mr. Mal­foy straight in the eye. “Be­cause if Har­ry here —” Mr. Mal­foy shot Har­ry a swift, sharp look “and his friend Ron hadn’t dis­cov­ered this book, why —— Gin­ny Weasley might have tak­en all the blame. No one would ev­er have been able to prove she hadn’t act­ed of her own free will…”

Mr. Mal­foy said noth­ing. His face was sud­den­ly mask­like.

“And imag­ine,” Dum­ble­dore went on, “what might have hap­pened then…The Weasleys are one of our most promi­nent pure-​blood fam­ilies. Imag­ine the ef­fect on Arthur Weasley and his Mug­gle Pro­tec­tion Act, if his own daugh­ter was dis­cov­ered at­tack­ing and — killing Mug­gle-​borns …. Very for­tu­nate the di­ary was dis­cov­ered, and Rid­dle’s mem­ories wiped from it. Who knows what the con­se­quences might have been oth­er­wise…”

Mr. Mal­foy forced him­self to speak.

“Very for­tu­nate,” he said stiffly.

And still, be­hind his back, Dob­by was point­ing, first to the di­ary, then to Lu­cius Mal­foy, then punch­ing him­self in the head.

And Har­ry sud­den­ly un­der­stood. He nod­ded at Dob­by, and Dob­by backed in­to a cor­ner, now twist­ing his ears in pun­ish­ment.

“Don’t you want to know how Gin­ny got hold of that di­ary, Mr. Mal­foy?” said Har­ry.

Lu­cius Mal­foy round­ed on him.

“How should I know how the stupid lit­tle girl got hold of it?” he said.

“Be­cause you gave it to her,” said Har­ry. “In Flour­ish and Blotts. You picked up her old Trans­fig­ura­tion book and slipped the di­ary in­side it, didn’t you?”

He saw Mr. Mal­foy’s white hands clench and un­clench.

“Prove it,” he hissed.

“Oh, no one will be able to do that,” said Dum­ble­dore, smil­ing at Har­ry. “Not now that Rid­dle has van­ished from the book. On the oth­er hand, I would ad­vise you, Lu­cius, not to go giv­ing out any more of Lord Volde­mort’s old school things. If any more of them find their way in­to in­no­cent hands, I think Arthur Weasley, for one, will make sure they are traced back to you…”

Lu­cius Mal­foy stood for a mo­ment, and Har­ry dis­tinct­ly saw his right hand twitch as though he was long­ing to reach for his wand. In­stead, he turned to his house-​elf. “We’re go­ing, Dob­by!”

He wrenched open the door and as the elf came hur­ry­ing up to him, he kicked him right through it. They could hear Dob­by squeal­ing with pain all the way along the cor­ri­dor. Har­ry stood for a mo­ment, think­ing hard. Then it came to him —

“Pro­fes­sor Dum­ble­dore,” he said hur­ried­ly. “Can I give that di­ary back to Mr. Mal­foy, please?”

“Cer­tain­ly, Har­ry,” said Dum­ble­dore calm­ly. “But hur­ry. The feast, re­mem­ber…Har­ry grabbed the di­ary and dashed out of the of­fice. He could hear Dob­by’s squeals of pain re­ced­ing around the cor­ner. Quick­ly, won­der­ing if this plan could pos­si­bly work, Har­ry took off one of his shoes, pulled off his slimy, filthy sock, and stuffed the di­ary in­to it. Then he ran down the dark cor­ri­dor.

He caught up with them at the top of the stairs.

“Mr. Mal­foy,” he gasped, skid­ding to a halt, “I’ve got some­thing for you —”

And he forced the smelly sock in­to Lu­cius Mal­foy’s hand.

“What the —?”

Mr. Mal­foy ripped the sock off the di­ary, threw it aside, then looked fu­ri­ous­ly from the ru­ined book to Har­ry.”You’ll meet the same sticky end as your par­ents one of these days, Har­ry Pot­ter,” he said soft­ly. “They were med­dle­some fools, too.”

He turned to go.

“Come, Dob­by. I said, come.”

But Dob­by didn’t move. He was hold­ing up Har­ry’s dis­gust­ing, slimy sock, and look­ing at it as though it were a price­less trea­sure.

“Mas­ter has giv­en a sock,” said the elf in won­der­ment. “Mas­ter gave it to Dob­by.”

“What’s that?” spat Mr. Mal­foy. “What did you say?”

“Got a sock,” said Dob­by in dis­be­lief. “Mas­ter threw it, and Dob­by caught it, and Dob­by — Dob­by is free.”

Lu­cius Mal­foy stood frozen, star­ing at the elf Then he lunged at Har­ry.

“You’ve lost me my ser­vant, boy!”

But Dob­by shout­ed, “You shall not harm Har­ry Pot­ter!”

There was a loud bang, and Mr. Mal­foy was thrown back­ward. He crashed down the stairs, three at a time, land­ing in a crum­pled heap on the land­ing be­low. He got up, his face livid, and pulled out his wand, but Dob­by raised a long, threat­en­ing fin­ger.

“You shall go now,” he said fierce­ly, point­ing down at Mr. Mal­foy. “You shall not touch Har­ry Pot­ter. You shall go now.”

Lu­cius Mal­foy had no choice. With a last, in­censed stare at the pair of them, he swung his cloak around him and hur­ried out of sight.

“Har­ry Pot­ter freed Dob­by!” said the elf shril­ly, gaz­ing up at Har­ry, moon­light from the near­est win­dow re­flect­ed in his orb-​like eyes. “Har­ry Pot­ter set Dob­by free!”

“Least I could do, Dob­by,” said Har­ry, grin­ning. “Just promise nev­er to try and save my life again.”

The elf’s ug­ly brown face split sud­den­ly in­to a wide, toothy smile.

“I’ve just got one ques­tion, Dob­by,” said Har­ry as Dob­by pulled on Har­ry’s sock with shak­ing hands. “You told me all this had noth­ing to do with He-​Who-​Must-​Not-​Be-​Named, re­mem­ber? Well —”

“It was a clue, sir,” said Dob­by, his eyes widen­ing, as though this was ob­vi­ous. “Was giv­ing you a clue. The Dark Lord, be­fore he changed his name, could be freely named, you see?”

“Right,” said Har­ry weak­ly. “Well, I’d bet­ter go. There’s a feast, and my friend Hermione should be awake by now…”

Dob­by threw his arms around Har­ry’s mid­dle and hugged him.

“Har­ry Pot­ter is greater by far than Dob­by knew!” he sobbed. “Farewell, Har­ry Pot­ter!”

And with a fi­nal loud crack, Dob­by dis­ap­peared.



Har­ry had been to sev­er­al Hog­warts feasts, but nev­er one quite like this. Ev­ery­body was in their pa­ja­mas, and the cel­ebra­tion last­ed all night. Har­ry didn’t know whether the best bit was Hermione run­ning to­ward him, scream­ing “You solved it! You solved it!” or Justin hur­ry­ing over from the Huf­flepuff ta­ble to wring. his hand and apol­ogize end­less­ly for sus­pect­ing him, or Ha­grid turn­ing up at half past three, cuff­ing Har­ry and Ron so hard on the shoul­ders that they were knocked in­to their plates of tri­fle, or his and Ron’s four hun­dred points for Gryffind­or se­cur­ing the House Cup for the sec­ond year run­ning, or Pro­fes­sor McG­ona­gall stand­ing up to tell them all that the ex­ams had been can­celed as a school treat (“Oh, no!” said Hermione), or Dum­ble­dore an­nounc­ing that, un­for­tu­nate­ly, Pro­fes­sor Lock­hart would be un­able to re­turn next year, ow­ing to the fact that he need­ed to go away and get his mem­ory back. Quite a few of the teach­ers joined in the cheer­ing that greet­ed this news.

“Shame,” said Ron, help­ing him­self to a jam dough­nut. “He has start­ing to grow on me.”



The rest of the fi­nal term passed in a haze of blaz­ing sun­shine. Hog­warts was back to nor­mal with on­ly a few, small dif­fer­ences — De­fense Against the Dark Arts class­es were can­celed (“but we’ve had plen­ty of prac­tice at that any­way,” Ron told a dis­grun­tled Hermione) and Lu­cius Mal­foy had been sacked as a school gov­er­nor. Dra­co was no longer strut­ting around the school as though he owned the place. On the con­trary, he looked re­sent­ful and sulky. On the oth­er hand, Gin­ny Weasley was per­fect­ly hap­py again.

Too soon, it was time for the jour­ney home on the Hog­warts Ex­press. Har­ry, Ron, Hermione, Fred, George, and Gin­ny got a com­part­ment to them­selves. They made the mos of the last few hours in which they were al­lowed to do mag­ic be­fore the hol­idays. They played Ex­plod­ing Snap, set off the very last of Fred and George’s Fil­ibuster fire­works, and prac­ticed dis­arm­ing each oth­er by mag­ic. Har­ry was get­ting very good at it.

They were al­most at King’s Cross when Har­ry re­mem­bered some­thing.

“Gin­ny – what did you see Per­cy do­ing, that he didn’t want you to tell any­one?”

“Oh, that,” said Gin­ny, gig­gling. “Well — Per­cy’s got a girl­friend.” Fred dropped a stack of books on George’s head.

“What?”

“It’s that Raven­claw pre­fect, Pene­lope Clear­wa­ter,” said Gin­ny. “That’s who he was writ­ing to all last sum­mer. He’s been meet­ing her all over the school in se­cret. I walked in on them kiss­ing in an emp­ty class­room one day. He was so up­set when she was — you know — at­tacked. You won’t tease him, will you?” she added anx­ious­ly.

“Wouldn’t dream of it,” said Fred, who was look­ing like his birth­day had come ear­ly.

“Def­inite­ly not,” said George, snig­ger­ing.

The Hog­warts Ex­press slowed and fi­nal­ly stopped.

Har­ry pulled out his quill and a bit of parch­ment and turned to Ron and Hermione.

“This is called a tele­phone num­ber,” he told Ron, scrib­bling it twice, tear­ing the parch­ment in two, and hand­ing it to them. “I told your dad how to use a tele­phone last sum­mer — he’ll know. Call me at the Durs­leys’, okay? I can’t stand an­oth­er two months with on­ly Dud­ley to talk to…”

“Your aunt and un­cle will be proud, though, won’t they?” said Hermione as they got off the train and joined the crowd throng­ing to­ward the en­chant­ed bar­ri­er. “When they hear what you did this year?”

“Proud?” said Har­ry. “Are you crazy? All those times I could’ve died, and I didn’t man­age it? They’ll be fu­ri­ous…”

And to­geth­er they walked back through the gate­way to the Mug­gle world.





