Severus Snape stowed his wands be­neath their cloaks and started walking briskly in the same di­rec­tion . The lane was bor­dered on the left by wild, low- grow­ing brambles, on the right by a high, neatly man­icured hedge .
The yew hedges muf­fled the sound of the men’s foot­steps . Snape and Yax­ley sped to­ward the front door, which swung in­ward at their ap­proach, though no­body had vis­ibly opened it .
Snape and Yax­ley lin­gered for a mo­ment on the thresh­old . As their eyes grew ac­cus­tomed to the lack of light, they were drawn up­ward to the strangest fea­ture of the scene .
The speak­er was seat­ed di­rect­ly in front of the fire­place, so it was dif­fi­cult, at first, for the new ar­rivals to make out more than his sil­hou­ette . He was so pale that he seemed to emit a pearly glow . “My Lord, the Or­der of the Phoenix in­tends to move Har­ry Pot­ter from his cur­rent place of safe­ty on Sat
Snape looked calm­ly back in­to Volde­mort’s face and, af­ter a mo­ment or two . “My Lord, I have heard dif­fer­ent­ly.” Snape was smil­ing. “I assure you, my Lord, Dawlish seemed quite cer­tain,” Yax­ley said.
Yax­ley, the Au­ror Of­fice will play no fur­ther part in the pro­tection of Har­ry Pot­ter . “The Or­der’s got one thing right, then, eh?” said a squat man sitting a short dis­tance from Yax-ley . Volde­mort did not laugh. His gaze had wan­dered up­ward to the body re­volv­ing slow­ly over­
“I have – with dif­fi­culty, and af­ter great ef­fort – suc­ceed­ed in plac­ing an Im­perius Curse up­on Pius Thick­nesse.” “It is a start,” said Volde­mort. “One failed attempt on the Min­is­ter’s life will set me back a long way.”
Thick­nesse has reg­ular con­tact not on­ly with the Min­is­ter him­self, but al­so with the Heads of all the oth­er Min­istry de­part­ments . “We are at an ad­van­tage there, my Lord,” Yax­ley said .
Volde­mort looked up at the slow­ly re­volv­ing body as he went on . “I shall at­tend to the boy in per­son. That Pot­ter lives is due more to my er­rors than to his tri­umphs.” The com­pa­ny around the ta­ble watched Volde-mort ap­pre­hen­sive­ly, each of them, by his or her ex­pres
“M- my Lord,” gasped a small man halfway down the ta­ble . Now he scram­bled from his seat and scur­ried from the room . The faces around him dis­played noth­ing but shock; he might have an­nounced that he want­ed to bor­row one of their arms .
Lu­cius Mal­foy drew out his wand and com­pared the lengths . The ges­ture was not missed by Volde­mort whose eyes widened ma­li­cious­ly .
Lu­cius Mal­foy’s wife made an odd, stiff nod, her eyes avert­ed from Volde­mort and the snake . To his right, his son, Dra­co, glanced quick­ly at the in­ert body overhead and away again, ter­ri­fied to make eye con­tact .
“My Lord knows I speak noth­ing but the truth!” she stared at him, her lips part­ed, ev­ident­ly con­fused . “I’m talking about your niece, Bel­la­trix. And yours, Lu­cius and Nar­cis­sa. You must be so proud.”
The gi­ant snake dis­lik­ing the dis­turbance, opened its mouth wide and hissed an­gri­ly . The Death Eaters did not hear it, so ju­bi­lant were they at Bel­la­trix and the Mal­foys’ hu­mil­ia­tion . “She is no niece of ours, my Lord,” she cried .
“Many of our old­est fam­ily trees be­come a lit­tle disease over time,” he said . “Yes, my Lord,” whis­pered Bel­la­trix and her eyes swam with tears of grat­itude again .
Char­ity Burbage, un­til re­cent­ly, taught witch­es and wiz­ards all about Muggles . One of the Death Eaters spat on the floor .
Char­ity Burbage revolved to face Snape . Tears were pour­ing from her eyes in­to her hair . Snape looked back at her, quite im­pas­sive .
Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows CHAPTER TWO IN MEM­ORAN­DUM Har­ry was bleed­ing . Clutch­ing his right hand in his left and swear­ing un­der his breath . He shoul­dered open his bed­room door .
Har­ry had spent the morn­ing com­plete­ly emp­ty­ing his school trunk for the first time since he had packed it six years ago . At the start of the in­ter­ven­ing school years, he skimmed off the top­most three quar­ters of the con­tents and re­placed or up­dat­ed them . It was stupid, point­less, ir­ri­tat­ing,
Har­ry laid it aside and felt cau­tious­ly around the trunk for the rest . It was a two-inch-long frag­ment of the en­chant­ed mir­ror that his dead god­fa­ther, Sir­ius, had giv­en him . He groped around in the bot­tom and af­ter re­triev­ing an old badge that flick­ered fee­bly be­
It took an­oth­er hour to emp­ty it com­plete­ly, throw away the use­less items, and sort the re­main­der in piles ac­cord­ing to whether or not he would need them from now on . He won­dered what his aunt and un­cle would do with them; burn them in the dead of night, prob­ably, as if they were ev­idence of some dread­ful crime .
Hed­wig made no move­ment as he be­gan to flick through news­pa­pers . The owl was asleep or else fak­ing; she was an­gry with Har­ry about the lim­it­ed amount of time she was al­lowed out of her cage at the mo­ment . As he neared the bot­tom of the pile, he slowed down, searching­ing for one par­tic­ular is­s
Al­bus Dumble­dore had con­tract­ed drag­on pox short­ly be­fore ar­riving at school . For his part, al­bus had ar­rived at Hog­warts un­der the bur­den of un­wanted no­to­ri­ety . Per­ci­val had been con­victed of a well- pub­li­cized at­tack up­on
Al­bus nev­er at­tempt­ed to de­ny that his fa­ther had com­mit­ted this crime; on the con­trary, when I plucked up courage to ask him, he as­sured me that his great­est plea­sure lay in teach­ing . In­deed, his de­ter­mined sup­port for Mug­gle rights gained him many en­emies in sub­se
Sev­er­al of his pa­pers found their way in­to learned pub­li­ca­tions such as Trans­fig­ura­tion To­day, Chal­lenges in Charm­ing, and The Prac­ti­cal Po­tion­eer .
Aber­forth was nev­er book­ish and, un­like Al­bus, pre­ferred to set­tle ar­gu­ments by du­el­ing rather than through dis­cus­sion . How­ev­er, it is quite wrong to sug­gest, as some have, that the broth­ers were not friends . They rubbed along as com­fort­ably as two such dif­ferent boys could do .
I left Hogwarts we in­tend­ed to take the then- tra­di­tion­al tour of the world to­geth­er, vis­it­ing and ob­serv­ing for­eign wiz­ards, be­fore pur­su­ing our sep­arate ca­reers . On the very eve of our trip, Al­bus's moth­ers, Kendra, died, leav
I wrote to Al­bus, de­scrib­ing, per­haps in­sen­si­tive­ly, the won­ders of my jour­ney, from nar­row es­capes from chi­maeras in Greece to the ex­per­iments of the Egyptian al­chemists . I guessed to be frus­trat­ing­ly dull for such a bril­liant wiz
Al­bus had ex­pe­ri­enced a much old­er per­son's suf­fer­ing . To add to his mis­ery, the loss of Ar­iana had led, not to a re­newed closeness be­tween al­bus and Aber­forth, but to an es­trange­ment . In time this would lift – in lat­er years they reestab­lished, if not 
Dum­ble­dore's tri­umphs are con­sid­ered a turn­ing point in mag­ical his­to­ry to match the in­tro­duc­tion of the In­ter­na­tion­al Statute of Se­cre­cy or the down­fall of He- Who- Must- Not- Be- Named . The wis­dom he dis­played in the many judg­ments while Chief
Al­bus Dum­ble­dore was nev­er proud or vain; he could find some­thing to val­ue in any­one, how­ev­er ap­par­ent­ly in­signif­icant or wretched . I be­lieve that his ear­ly loss­es en­dowed him with great hu­man­ity and sym­pa­thy . He died
Nev­er once had he imag­ined Dum­ble­dore's child­hood or youth . it was as though he had sprung in­to be­ing as Har­ry had known him .
Dum­ble­dore had tak­en part in that leg­endary du­el with Grindel­wald . Har­ry had not thought to ask him what that had been like, nor about any of his fa­mous achieve­ments .
Af­ter sev­er­al min­utes' thought, Har­ry tore the obit­uary out of the Prophet, fold­ed it care­ful­ly, and tucked it in­side the first vol­ume of Prac­ti­cal De­fen­sive Mag­ic and its Use against the Dark Arts . The on­ly things left out of place were to­day's Dai­ly Prophet, still ly­ing on
Ri­ta Skeeter re­veals the dis­turbed child­hood, the lawless youth, the life-long feuds, and the guilty se­crets that Dum­ble­dore car­ried to his grave . What was the pur­pose of the Se­cret or­ga­ni­za­tion known as the Or­der of the Phoenix? The an­swers to these and many more ques­tions are ex­plored in
Ri­ta Skeeter's nine- hun­dred-page book was com­plet­ed in a mere four weeks af­ter Dum­ble­dore's mys­te­ri­ous death in June . I ask her how she man­aged this su­per­fast feat .
El­phias Doge's in­ac­cu­ra­cy has been echoed in many places . Dodgy Doge can get off his high hip­pogriff, be­cause I've had access to a source most jour­nal­ists would swap their wands for .
Skeeter has cer­tain­ly sug­gest­ed that there will be shocks in store for those who be­lieve Dum­ble­dore to have led a blame­less life . “Now, come off it. Bet­ty, I'm not giv­ing away all the high­lights be­fore any­body's bought the book!” laughs Skeleeter .
Dum­ble­dore couldn't keep ei­ther of them qui­et any­way, they were charged by the Wiz­eng­amot . No, it's the moth­er and the sis­ter that in­trigued me, and a lit­tle dig­ging un­cov­ered a pos­itive nest of nas­ti­ness – but, as I say, you'll have to wait
Skeeter re­fus­es to give any more away on this in­trigu­ing sub­ject . “I'm afraid those who go dewy- eyed over Dum­ble­dore's spec­tac­ular vic­to­ry must brace them­selves for a bomb­shell – or per­haps a Dung­bomb. Very dirty busi­ness in­deed. All I'll
Har­ry Pot­ter spoke ex­clu­sive­ly of his con­vic­tion that You- Know- Who had re­turned . “Oh, yes, we've de­vel­oped a clos­er bond,” says Skeeter . Does Skeleeter be­lieve that Pot­ters was there when Dum­ble­dore died?
Pot­ter lat­er gave ev­idence against Severus Snape, a man against whom he has a no­to­ri­ous grudge . There can be no doubt that Skeeter has quilled an in­stant best­seller .
Har­ry froze, his cut fin­ger slip­ping on the jagged edge of the mir­ror again . He glanced over his shoul­der, but the wall was a sick­ly peach col­or of Aunt Petu­nia's choos­ing . There was noth­ing but his own bright green eye look­ing back at him .
Al­bus Dumble­dore's eyes would nev­er pierce him again . Har­ry was still at the nar­row frag­ment in which, for a split sec­ond, had thought he saw Dum­ble­denore’s eye . It was not un­til his un­cle bel­lowed, “BOY!” that he got slow­ly out of bed .
Har­ry raised his eye­brows. “Please!” added Un­cle Ver­non, winc­ing slight­ly as though the word was sharp in his throat . "I've changed my mind," said Harry. "We're staying put, we’re not going­ing any­where."
Har­ry had been chang­ing his mind ev­ery twen­ty four hours for the past four weeks . Un­cle Ver­non, un­aware that Dud­ley had added dumbbells to his case since the last time it was repacked, had at­tempt­ed to hoist it back in­to the boot and col­lapsed with a yelp of pain and much swear­ing . “Well I don’
Har­ry thought he had rather impressed his un­cle with this ar­gu­ment . "You claim," said Un­cle Ver­non .
Har­ry guessed that his un­cle was at­tempt­ing to ward off rec­ol­lec­tions of the unan­nounced vis­it, a few days in­to Harry's sum­mer hol­idays . The ar­rival on the doorstep of Kings­ley Shack­le­bolt and Arthur Weasley had come as a most un­pleas­ant shock to the Durs­leys.
Un­cle Ver­non strode back to the fire­place and back breath­ing so strong­ly that his great black mus­tache rip­pled his face still pur­ple with con­cen­tra­tion . “All right, let's say for the sake of ar­gu­ment we ac­cept this pro­tec­tion. I still don't see why we can't have that Kings­ley bloke.” Har­ry said .
The Durs­leys had spot­ted Kings­ley on the news, walking along the Mug­gle Prime Min­is­ter as he vis­it­ed a hos­pi­tal . “Ex­actly – he's the best!” said Un­cle Ver­non, point­ing at the blank tele­vi­sion screen .
Peo­ple are dis­ap­pear­ing and dy­ing – Volde­mort . Even the fogs – they're caused by de­men­tors, and if you can't re­mem­ber what they are, ask your son!” Har­ry said .
Aunt Petu­nia was looking at Un­cle Ver­non; Dud­ley was star­ing at Har­ry . “They will tor­ture and kill you like they did my par­ents!” shout­ed Harry. “Dad – I'm go­ing with these Or­der peo­ple.” He knew the bat­tle was won .
"They're through here, my aunt and un­cle, and cousin," says Har­ry . "We're leav­ing soon, re­al­ly soon," says Dedalus . The Durs­leys are through here in about five min­utes, he says .
Dud­ley shrank neared to his moth­er at the sight of the witch and wiz­ard . “I see you are packed and ready. Ex­cel­lent! The plan, as Har­ry has told you, is a sim­ple one,” said Dedalus .
“You, Har­ry,” Dedalus con­tin­ued, “will wait here for your guard. There has been a little change in the ar­range­ments –” Mad- Eye was going to come and take me by Side Along- Ap­pari­tion? “Can't do it,” said Hes­tia terse­ly, “Mad- Eye will ex­plain.” The Durs­leys, who had lis­t
Un­cle Ver­non made any fur­ther ex­pla­na­tion un­nec­es­sary by saying­ing loud­ly, “Well, this is good-bye then boy.” He swung his right arm up­ward to shake Har­ry's hand, but at the last mo­ment seemed un­able to face it, and mere­ly closed his fist and be­gan swing­ing it back­ward and for­ward like 
Un­cle Ver­non and Aunt Petu­nia froze when they stood star­ing at Dud­ley as if he had just ex­pressed a de­sire to be­come a bal­le­ri­na . “Well, he—doesn't want to, do you?” said Har­ry. “Now come on we're off.” He marched out of the room .
"He's off with some of your lot, isn't he? Right, Dud­ley, let's get in the car, you heard the man, we're in a hur­ry" Har­ry had met this at­ti­tude be­fore Witch­es and wiz­ards seemed stunned that his closed liv­ing rel­atives took so lit­tle in­ter­est . “It doesn't mat­ter, hon
Har­ry stared at Dud­ley for sev­er­al sec­onds be­fore ac­cept­ing that it must have been his cousin who had spo­ken; for one thing, Dudley had turned red . “You saved my life,” “Not re­al­ly,” said Harry. “It was your soul the de­men­tor would have tak­en...” He looked cu­ri­ously at his cousin .
“S- so sweet, Dud­ders...” said Hes­tia in­dig­nant­ly . “He on­ly said he didn't think Har­ry was a waste of space!” roared Un­cle Ver­non, reap­pear­ing yet again at the liv­ing room door .
Dud­ley gen­tly re­leased him­self from his moth­er's clutch­es . Hes­tia fol­lowed him and walked to­ward Har­ry with­out look­ing at him . “Good-bye” said Aunt Petu­nia whose face had been buried in her hand­ker­chief .
Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows CHAPTER FOUR THE SEV­EN POT­TERS Har­ry ran back up­stairs to his bed­room, ar­riving at the win­dow just in time to see the Dursleys' car swing­ing out of the drive and off up the road . Dedalus’s top hat was vis­ible be­tween Aunt Petu­nia and Dud­ley in the back­seat .
Har­ry picked up Hed­wig’s cage, his Fire­bolt, and his ruck­sack . He then made his way back down­stairs to the hall, where he de­posit­ed cage, broom­stick, and bag near the foot of the stairs . It felt most strange to stand here in the si­lence and know that he was about to leave the house for the last time .
Har­ry looked around at the stacked shoes and um­brel­las re­mem­ber­ing how he used to wake ev­ery morn­ing look­ing up at the un­der­side of the stair­case . He had found out how his par­ents had died or why such strange things of­ten hap­pened around him .
fig­ures be­gan to pop in­to sight as their Dis­il­lu­sion Charms lift­ed . All around him oth­er peo­ple were dis­mount­ing from brooms and skele­tal, black winged hors­es . There was a gen­er­al cry of greet­ing as Hermione flung her arms around him, Ron clapped him on the back .
Har­ry’s heart seemed to ex­pand and glow at the sight . He felt in­cred­ibly fond of all of them, even Mundun­gus, whom he had tried to stran­gle the last time they had met .
“I’m sor­ry you couldn’t be there, Har­ry, it was very qui­et.” “All right, all right, we’ll have time for a cozy catch-up lat­er,” roared Moody over the hub­bub . Pius Thick­nesse has gone over, which gives us a big prob­lem .
Har­ry could not help but agree with the un­known Thick­nesse . “We’re go­ing to use the on­ly ones the Trace can’t de­tect, be­cause we don’t need to use them: brooms, thes­trals, and Ha­grid’s mo­tor­bike.” “Now, your moth­er’s charm will break un­der two con­di­tions: when you come of age,
We’re choos­ing to break it ear­ly, be­cause the al­ter­na­tive is waiting for You- Know- Who to come and seize you the mo­ment you turn sev­en­teen . We’ve leaked a fake trail to the Min­istry: They think you’re not leav­ing un­til the thir­ti­eth . “You’ll be going to Tonks’s
“Er – yes,” said Har­ry . “You can’t do it if we don’t co­op­er­ate, you need me to give you some hair.” “Imag­ine if some­thing went wrong,” said Fred earnest­ly .
“Ob­vi­ous­ly there’s no chance at all of us getting­ting a bit of your hair un­less you co­op­er­ate,” said Fred. “Fun­ny,” said Har­ry, “re­al­ly amus­ing.” “If it has to come to force, then it will,” growled Moody .
“No need!” snarled Moody . “With You- Know- Who out there and half the Min­istry on his side? Pot­ter, if we’re lucky he’ll have swal­lowed the fake bait . They might not be able to get at you or this house while your moth­er’s charm holds, but it’s about to break .
“I’m a sol­dier, I’d soon­er be a pro­tector,” said Mundun­gus . “As I’ve al­ready told you, you spine­less worm, the Death Eaters’ll want to kill them,” Moody said .
Ron, Hermione, Fred, George, Fleur, and Mundun­gus drank . All of them gasped and gri­maced as the po­tion hit their throats . At once, their fea­tures be­gan to bub­ble and dis­tort like hot wax . Moody, quite un­con­cerned, was now loos­en­ing the ties he had brought with him .
Har­ry, his eye­sight re­al­ly is aw­ful,” said Ron . He watched as his six dop­pel­gangers rum­maged in the sacks . “I knew Gin­ny was ly­ing about that tat­too,” said Hermione .
Fleur walked over to stand be­side him, giv­ing him a sop­py, slavish look that Har­ry hoped would nev­er ap­pear on his face again . Hermione looked re­as­sured as she an­swered Kings­ley’s smile . “An’ you’re with me, Ron!” said Tonks bright­ly .
“We think the Death Eaters will ex­pect you to be on a broom,” said Moody . “Snape’s had plen­ty of time to tell them ev­ery­thing about you he’s nev­er men­tioned be­fore, so we’re bet­ting they’ll choose one of the Pot­ters who looks at home on . All right then,” Moody went on, ty­ing up
Har­ry stuffed his ruck­sack and broom­stick down by his feet and rammed Hed­wig’s cage be­tween his knees . He was ex­treme­ly un­com­fort­able. “Arthur’s done a bit o’ tinkerin’,” said Ha­grid .
Tonks and Har­ry saw Ron throw a guilty look at Lupin be­fore . “Good luck, ev­ery­one,” shout­ed Moody. “See you all in about an hour at the Bur­row. On the count of three. One ... two .. THREE.” He was ris­ing through the air fast .
Hed­wig's cage, the Fire­bolt, and his ruck­sack slipped from be­neath his knees – “No – HELP!” The owl screeched and fell to the floor of the cage . Har­ry glimpsed hood­ed Death Eaters scat­ter­ing as the mo­tor­bike rolled over .
Four Death Eaters had bro­ken away from the cir­cle and were pur­su­ing them . more curs­es shot af­ter them, and Har­ry had to sink low in­to the side­car . “Ha­grid, TURN AROUND!” “My job's ter get you there safe, Har­rry!” Har-ry shout­ed .
Har­ry saw it ex­pand in­to be­ing in midair . Three Death Eaters swerved and avoided it, but the fourth was not so lucky . One of his fel­lows slowed up to save him, but they and the air­borne wall were swal­lowed by dark­ness .
Har­ry saw the Death Eaters swerve out of sight to avoid the dead­ly trail of flame . The side­car was start­ing to twist vi­olent­ly in the bike's slip­stream . “I'm on it, Harry, don' wor­ry!” Ha­grid yelled, and he saw him slam his whole hand on­to the pur­ple but­ton be­side the speedome­ter.
Ha­grid yelled from out of the dark­ness, but Har­ry could feel the side­car be­gin­ning to sink again . The jinx hit the mid­dle Death Eater in the chest; For a mo­ment the man was ab­surd­ly spread­ea­gled in midair as though he had hit an in­vis­ible bar­ri­er .
Death Eater near­est it was blast­ed off his broom and fell from sight . Har­ry shouted back, as two more Death Eaters emerged out of the dark­ness, draw­ing clos­er . The curs­es came shoot­ing across the in­ter­ven­ing space again, Ha­grid zigzagged .
Har­ry clam­bered around on the seat to face for­ward and seized hold of the back of Ha­grid's jack­et . Fear lapped at him as he looked left and right for pur­suers he was sure would come .
Har­ry sent the Death Eater fly­ing at ran­dom in­to a ver­ti­cal dive . He saw a body fly past him and knew he had hit one of them . A hood­ed fig­ure on a broom­stick was feet from him, he saw it raise its arm – “NO!” With a shout of fury Ha­grid launched him­self off the bike .
Har­ry heard Volde­mort scream, “Mine!” It was over: He could not see or hear where he was; he glimpsed an­oth­er Death Eater swoop­ing out of the way . He felt it drag his hand around like some great mag­net, saw a spurt of gold­en fire through his half- closed eye­lids . “Ha­grid – Ac­cio Ha­gride!” The mo­
Har­ry looked down and saw Ha­grid spread- ea­gled on the ground be­low him . He pulled hard at the han­dle­bars to avoid hit­ting him, groped for the brake, but with an ear­split­ting, ground trem­bling crash, he smashed in­to a mud­dy pond .
“Ha­grid?” opened his eyes and saw that he was ly­ing on a so­fa . His ruck­sack lay on the floor a short dis­tance away, wet and mud­dy . A fair-haired, big- bel­lied man was watch­ing Har­ry anx­ious­ly .
Ted Tonks looked up at the ceil­ing as though he could see through it to the sky above . He imag­ined Volde­mort, a hun­dred yards above them as they spoke, looking for a way to pen­etrate what Har­ry vi­su­al­ized as a great trans­parent bub­ble .
Har­ry had just no­ticed the wom­an who had en­tered the room be­hind Ha­grid . “Your wand's here, son,” said Ted, tap­ing it on him . He had con­sent­ed to the plan, giv­en them his hair.
Ted Tonks seized his ruck­sack, swung it on­to his shoul­ders . He was glad to leave the room and fol­low him along a short hall­way and in­to a bed­room . “You go, son. That's the Portkey,” he said .
Har­ry felt ashamed of him­self as the tears stung his eyes . The owl had been his one great link with the mag­ical world when­ev­er he had been forced to re­turn to the Durs­leys .
Har­ry pant­ed. “What d'you mean? Isn't any­one else back?” cried Mrs. Weasley . He could hear the self- jus­ti­fy­ing note in his voice, the plea for her to un­der­stand why he did not know what had hap­pened to her sons .
Gin­ny reap­peared car­ry­ing a bot­tle of brandy . Lupin was sup­port­ing George, who was un­con­scious and whose face was cov­ered in blood . Har­ry ran forward and seized George's legs .
Lupin grabbed Har­ry by the up­per arm and dragged him back in­to the kitchen . “Oi!” said Ha­grid in­dig­nant­ly, “Le' go of him! Le’ go of Har­ries!” Lupin giv­ed him. “A – a grindy­low in a tank, wasn't it?” Lupin said .
“Volde­mort caught up with you?” said Lupin sharply . “What hap­pened? How did you es­cape?” Lupin looked aghast .
Ex­pel­liar­mus saved Stan Shun­pike from Volde­mort two years ago . Lupin was re­mind­ing him of the sneer­ing Zacharias Smith . “Yes, Har­ry,” said Lupin .
Lupin's re­tort was lost: Fi­nal­ly suc­ceed­ing in squeez­ing through the door, Ha­grid stag­gered to a chair and sat down; it col­lapsed be­neath him . There was a scuf­fling from out­side; Har­ry leapt over Ha­Grid's legs and sprint­ed in­to the yard . Herm
Lupin sti­fled a lit­tle moan be­hind her hand . “I saw him too, he came af­ter Ha­grid and me,” Lupin said .
Travers' hood fell off when I cursed him, he's sup­posed to be in­side too . “Snape's work,” said Lupin. “He lost his hood dur­ing the chase. Sec­tum­sem­pra was al­ways a spe­cial­ty of Snape's.” There was no sign of move­ment; the stars stared back, un­blink­ing, in­dif­fer­ent
“I can't make it grow back, not when it's been re­moved by Dark Mag­ic.” “Did I hear some­one else in the yard?” Gin­ny asked . “Hermione and Kings­ley,” said Har­ry. “Thank good­ness,” said Mrs. Weasley whis­pered .
“I'm holy. Ho­ley, Fred, ged­dit?” Mrs. Weasley sobbed hard­er than ev­er . Col­or flood­ed Fred's pale face . “You'll be able to tell us apart now, any­way, Mum.” He said .
Har­ry was re­mind­ed of Un­cle Ver­non pac­ing the liv­ing room a mil­lion years ago . He was strid­ing back­ward and for­ward, glanc­ing up at the sky ev­ery time he turned . The min­utes stretched in­to what might as well have been years .
“Are we the last back?” said Gin­ny, gaz­ing up at Ron with her arms still around his neck . “Al­ways the tone of surprise,” he said grumpi­ly, breaking free .
Kings­ley walked away in­to the dark­ness to­ward the gate . Mr. And Mrs. Weasley came rac­ing down the back steps, Gin­ny be­hind them . A thes­tral had just soared from its back, windswept but un­hurt . “Bill! Thank God, thank God –” said Lupin .
Har­ry felt as though some­thing inside him was falling, falling through the earth, leav­ing him for­ev­er . “We saw it,” said Bill; Fleur nod­ded, tear tracks glit­ter­ing on her cheeks in the light from the kitchen win­dow . Mad- Eye and Dung were close by us, they were head­ing north too .
“What's hap­pened? Who's --?” said Mr. Weasley, “Dead.” The twins' grins turned to gri­maces of shock . Har­ry knew, his fa­vorite and his pro­tégée at the Min­istry of Mag­ic . “Mad- Eye,” echoed Ha­grid, a little late, with a hic­cup .
“I know what you're think­ing,” said Bill, “and I won­dered that too, on the way back here, be­cause they seemed to be ex­pect­ing us, didn't they? It was Mundun­gus who sug­gest­ed them the mo­ment we ap­peared, and in case you've for­got­ten, it was Dung pan­icked, it's as sim­ple as that
Har­ry glanced at Ha­grid, who had just risked his own life to save him . He trust­ed Ha-grid who had once been tricked in­to giv­ing Volde­mort cru­cial in­for­ma­tion in ex­change for a drag­on's egg .
Lupin was wearing an odd ex­pres­sion as he looked at Har­ry . He felt ir­ra­tional­ly an­gry, but he turned away from him . “I'll do it, I'll come.” “Where are you going­ing?” said Bill .
“You're all in dan­ger while I'm here. I don't want –” Mr. Weasley rubbed his fore­head; it was prick­ling again, he had not hurt like this for more than a year . Fleur's agreed to get mar­ried here rather than in France .
Har­ry drank the last of his firewhisky to avoid an­swer­ing . “Wait till it gets out yeh did it again,” said Ha­grid flat­ly . "It was my wand. My wwand act­ed of its own ac­cord," said Harry .
Har­ry hat­ed the idea that they were all imag­in­ing him to have pow­er to match Volde­mort's . No one said any­thing. He knew that they did not be­lieve him . Now that he came to think of it, he had nev­er heard of a wand per­form­ing mag­ic on its own be­fore .
Dum­ble­dore had known about wands, had ex­plained to Har­ry the strange con­nec­tion that ex­ist­ed him and Volde­mort's . He felt a burn­ing in his throat that had noth­ing to do with firewhisky . And then, out of nowhere, the pain in his scar peaked .
“I swear I did not. I can­not un­der­stand. The con­nec­tion . ex­ists on­ly . be­tween your two wands.” “Lies!” “Please . . I beg you.” And Har­ry saw the frail old main on the floor writhe in agony – “Har­ry?” It was over as quick­ly as it had come . It was sev­er­al mo
Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows CHAPTER SIX THE GHOUL IN PA­JA­MAS The shock of los­ing Mad- Eye hung over the house in the days that fol­lowed . Har­ry felt that noth­ing but ac­tion would as­suage his feel­ings of guilt and grief and that he ought to set out on his mis­sion to find and de­stroy Hor­crux­es as soon as pos­si
Mrs. Weasley had gone up­stairs to wake Hermione and Gin­ny . Fleur had drifted off to take a bath . “They’ll kill us if we miss it,” said Har­ry .
Mrs. Weasley de­tached Har­ry from the oth­ers by asking him to help iden­ti­fy a lone man’s sock that she thought might have come out of his ruck­sack . “Ron and Hermione seem to think that the three of you are dropping out of Hog­warts,” she be­gan in a light, ca­su­al tone . The man­gle turned of its
“I don’t see that you have to go ei­ther!” she snapped, dropping all pre­tense now . “You’re bare­ly of age, any of you! It’s ut­ter non­sense, if Dum­ble­dore need­ed work do­ing, he had the whole Or­der at his com­mand! Har­ry, you must have mis­un­der­stood him,”
Mrs. Weasley kept Har­ry, Ron and Hermione busy with prepa­tions for the wed­ding that they hard­ly had any time to think . The kind­est ex­pla­na­tion of this be­havior would have been that Mrs. weasley want­ed to dis­tract them all from thoughts of Mad- Eye and the ter­rors of their re­cent jour­ney .
Har­ry be­came aware that this was the first time that he had been alone with her since those stolen hours in se­clud­ed cor­ners of the Hog­warts grounds . Both of them jumped as the door opened, and Mr. Weasley, Kingsley, and Bill walked in . They were of­ten joined by oth­er Or­der mem­bers for din­ner now.
Mad- Eye set up a cou­ple of curs­es against Snape in case he turns up there again . It would have been in­sane to keep us­ing the place as headquar­ters now that its pro­tec­tion has be­come so shaky” Har­ry found him­self crammed be­side Gin­ny; the un­said things that had just passed them made him wish they had been sep­arat­e
Scrim­geour doesn’t want to ad­mit that You- Know- Who is as pow­er­ful as he is . “Isn’t any­one at the Min­istry pre­pared to stand up to him?” asked Ron an­gri­ly .
“We must de­cide ‘ow you will be dis­guised, ‘Ar­ry,” said Fleur . “Of course, none of our guests are Death Eaters, but we can­not guar­an­tee zat zey will not let some­thing slip af­ter ze’ave ‘ad cham­pagne.” From this, Har­ry gath­ered that she still sus­pect­ed Ha­grid
There’s an ex­haust gaskin, as I believe it’s called, the most mag­nif­icent battery, and it’ll be a great op­por­tu­ni­ty to find out how brakes work . When they re­turned to the house, Mrs. Weasley was nowhere to be seen, so Har­ry slipped up­stairs to Ron’s at­tic bed­room .
Ron lay back down on the bed, which he had ev­ident­ly just va­cat­ed . Hermione was now sitting in the far cor­ner, her fluffy gin­ger cat, Crook­shanks, at her feet . “I reck­on he might have sur­vive,” said Ron .
“Of course we don’t want him to be dead!” said Ron grumpi­ly . “It’s dread­ful that he’s dead! But we’re be­ing re­al­is­tic!” said Har­ry .
Ron hand­ed the slight­ly smok­ing hand­ker­chief to Hermione . She blew her nose and hic­cupped . “I’m sorry. I know,” said Ron, mop­ping her eyes .
Ron had snatched his arm back from around her shoul­ders . Hermione dropped The Mon­ster on his foot and picked up Hog­warts, A His­to­ry . “I won­der . will we need to trans­late runes?” Ron asked .
“I know you said af­ter Dumble­dore’s fu­ner­al that you want­ed to come with me,” Har­ry be­gan . “You know, I think I will take Hog­warts, A His­to­ry. Even if we’re not going back there, I don’t think I’d feel right if I didn’t have it with –“ “Lis­ten!” said Hermione .
Wen­dell and Mon­ica Wilkins don’t know that they’ve got a daugh­ter, you see.” Hermione’s eyes were swim­ming with tears again . Har­ry could not think of any­thing to say, not least be­cause it was high­ly un­usu­al for Ron to be teach­ing any­one else tact .
Ron fol­low­ing Ron out of the room on­to the tiny land­ing . A hatch opened right over their heads and a lad­der slid down to their feet . “That’s your ghoul, isn’t it?” asked Har­ry .
Har­ry was al­so sure that ghouls were gen­er­al­ly rather slimy and bald, rather than dis­tinct­ly hairy . “I’ll ex­plain it back in my room, the smell’s getting­ting to me,” said Ron . They climbed back down the lad­der, which Ron re­turned to the ceil­ing .
“It is!” said Ron, clear­ly frus­trat­ing that Har­ry had not grasped the bril­liance of the plan . “But hope­ful­ly it’ll look like I’ve gone away with Mum and Dad,” said Hermione. “We’re go­ing to put out the story that I’m se­ri­ous­ly ill with spat­ter­groit .
Ron sat watching her, and Har­ry looked from one to the oth­er, un­able to say any­thing . The mea­sure they had tak­en to pro­tect their fam­ilies made him re­al­ize . He wanted­ed to tell them what that meant to him, but he sim­ply could not find words im­por­tant enough .
“What we re­al­ly need to de­cide,” said Hermione . “If we knew where any of the Hor­crux­es were, I’d agree with you,” said Har­ry . He had a strong, though in­ex­pli­ca­ble, feel­ing that the place held an­swers for him . His par­ents’ graves were on­ly part of the at­trac­tion .
“I have stolen the re­al Hor­crux and in­tend to de­stroy it as soon as I can.’” Har­ry dragged his ruck­sack to­ward him . “Well, what if he did fin­ish it off?” said Ron .
“I just did a Sum­mon­ing Charm. You know – Ac­cio. And – they zoomed out of Dum­ble­dore’s study win­dow right in­to the girls’ dor­mi­to­ry.” “Well . . it was easy,” said Hermione in a small­er voice .
Hermione looked a lit­tle nau­se­at­ed and held it as gin­ger­ly as if it were some­thing re­cent­ly dead . “Why did he have to ask Slughorn how to make a Hor­crux?” asked Ron .
Har­ry re­mem­bered what Dum­ble­dore had said about Volde­mort mov­ing be­yond “usu­al evil” . “Isn’t there any way of putting yourself back to­geth­er?” Ron asked .
“I was won­der­ing what we were going to do with them,” said Ron . Basilisk ven­om on­ly has one an­ti­dote, and it’s in­cred­ibly rare –“ phoenix tears . “It has to be some­thing so de­structive that the Hor­crux can’t re­pair it­self,” said Hermione .
Har­ry and Ron looked thor­ough­ly con­fused, Hermione hur­ried on . “Which would be a re­al comfort to me, I’m sure,” Ron said . The frag­ment of soul inside it de­pends on its con­tain­er, its en­chant­ed body .
Gin­ny poured her heart out in­to that di­ary, she made her­self in­cred­ibly vul­ner­able . “I won­der how Dum­ble­dore de­stroyed the ring?” said Har­ry .
Hermione shrieked and dropped Se­crets of the Dark­est Art . Crook­shanks streaked un­der the bed, hiss­ing in­dig­nant­ly . Har­ry in­stinc­tive­ly dived for his wand be­fore re­al­iz­ing that he was looking­ing up at Mrs. Weasley, whose hair was di­sheveled and whose
Ron, Ron, Hermione and Gin­ny were feeling re­sent­ful to Fleur’s fam­ily by this time . The Dela­cours ar­rived the fol­low­ing morn­ing at eleven o’ clock .
Har­ry had lost track of how many se­cu­ri­ty en­chantments had been placed up­on the Bur­row by both the Or­der and the Min­istry . Mr. Weasley had there­fore gone to meet the Dela­cours on top of a near­by hill, where they were to ar­rive by Portkey .
Mon­sieur Dela­cour was a head short­er and ex­treme­ly plumb with a lit­tle, point­ed black beard . He kissed Mrs. Weasley twice on each cheek, leav­ing her flus­tered . “You’ave been so much trou­ble,” he said .
Mon­sieur Dela­cour pro­nounced ev­ery­thing from the seat­ing plan to the brides­maids’ shoes “Char­mant!” Madame Delacour was most ac­com­plished at house­hold spells and had the oven prop­er­ly cleaned in a trice . Mrs. Weasley cleared her throat loud­ly .
Bur­row was not built to ac­com­mo­date so many peo­ples . Mr. and Mrs. Weasley were sleep­ing in the sit­ting room . They shouted down Mon­sieur and Madame Dela­cour’s protests and in­sist­ed they take their bed­room .
“Oh, good, you’ve fed the chick­ens,” she ex­plained . “We’d bet­ter shut them away again be­fore the men ar­rive to­mor­row” she looked ex­haust­ed, paus­ing to lean against the hen­house .
Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows CHAPTER SEVEN THE WILL OF AL­BUS DUM­BLE­DORE He was walking along a moun­tain road in the cool blue light of dawn . Har­ry looked at him, a long, search­ing look, then smiled a lit­tle sad­ly, straight­ened up, and walked away . Pig­wid­geon was asleep with his head un­der his tiny wing .
Ron sat up, still rub­bing his scar, now wide awake . He tried to re­mem­ber ex­act­ly what he had seen in the dream . “I think he's some­where abroad, looking­ing for Gre­gorovitch.” “You reck­on you were seeing­ing in­to his mind again?” Ron said .
“I try not to ei­ther,” said Ron. “Well, hap­py birth­day any­way.” “Wow, that's right, I for­got! I'm sev­en­teen!” Har­ry sent Ron's pos­ses­sions fly­ing around the room, caus­ing Pig­wid­geon to wake up and flut­ter ex­cit­ed­ly around his cage . “Slick,” s
Ron ad­vised Har­ry as he took the rect­an­gu­lar par­cel . “I'd pure gold: Twelve Fail- Safe Ways to Charm Witch­es. Ex­plains ev­ery­thing you need to know about girls. You'd be sur­prised, it's not all about wand­work, ei­ther.”
Har­ry sat down, took the square par­cel she had in­di­cat­ed, and un­wrapped it . He tried to put a lot of un­said things in­to the hug and per­haps she un­der­stood them, be­cause she pat­ting his cheek clum­si­ly when he re­leased her, then waved her wand in a slight­ly ran­dom way
Har­ry, Ron, and Hermione did not linger at the ta­ble as the ar­rival of Madame Dela­cour, Fleur, and Wiz­ard Wheezes made the kitchen un­com­fort­ably crowd­ed . “I'm near­ly done, I'm just waiting for the rest of your un­der­pants to come out of the wash, Ron--” Ron's splut­ter was in­ter
Gin­ny looked up in­to Har­ry's face, took a deep breath, and said, “Hap­py sev­en­teenth.” “Yeah...thanks.” She was looking at him steadi­ly . “You didn't know what would be useful. Noth­ing too big, be­cause you wouldn't be able to take it with you.” He chanced a glance at her . He had some­times thought that
Gin­ny was the on­ly re­al thing in the world, the feel of her, one hand at her back and one in her long, sweet-smelling hair-- The door banged open be­hind them and they jumped apart . Hermione looked ner­vous; Har­ry wanted­ed to slam the door in their faces, but it felt as though a cold draft had en­tered the room when the door opened, and his shin­ing
Ron looked at Gin­ny, want­ing to say some­thing, but she had turned her back on him . He could not do any­thing to com­fort her in front of Ron . “You ditched her. What are you doing­ing now, mess­ing her around?” Hermione said .
Char­lie's ar­rival came as a re­lief to Har­ry . It pro­vid­ed a dis­trac­tion, watch­ing Mrs. Weasley force her in­to a chair, raise her wand threat­en­ing­ly, and an­nounce that he was about to get a prop­er haircut .
Fred and George be­witched a num­ber of pur­ple lanterns to hang in midair over the guests . Hermione draped them­selves ar­tis­ti­cal­ly over the trees and bush­es . “You've re­al­ly got an eye for that sort of thing,” said Ron .
Sec­onds lat­er Har­ry re­al­ized that it was his birth­day cake . Mrs. Weasley said, “Oh, it's noth­ing, dear,” fond­ly . By sev­en o’clock all the guests had ar­rived, led in­to the house by Fred and George .
Ha­grid pulled out a small draw­string pouch with a long string, ev­ident­ly in­tend­ed to be worn around the neck . Char­lie ap­proached, run­ning his hand slight­ly rue­ful­ly over his new, bru­tal­ly short hair­cut . “Bin meanin' ter write fer ages. How's Norbert doin'?
The Pa­tronus dis­solved in­to thin air, leav­ing Fleur's fam­ily peer­ing in as­ton­ish­ment . He seized Tonks’s wrist and pulled her away; they reached the fence, climbed over it, and vanished from sight . Mrs. Weasley looked be­wil­dered .
Ru­fus Scrim­geour ap­peared out of thin air at the gate, ac­com­pa­nied by his mane of griz­zled hair . The two newcom­ers marched across the yard to­ward the gar­den and the lantern- lit ta­ble, where ev­ery­body sat in si­lence, watching them draw clos­er . “Sorry to in­tru
Scrim­geour sat him­self in the sag­ging arm­chair that Mr. Weasley nor­mal­ly oc­cu­pied, leav­ing Har­ry, Ron, and Hermione to squeeze side by side on­to the so­fa . “There will be no need for you to ac­com­pa­ny us, Arthur.” He saw Mr. Ourasley ex­change a worried look
Scrim­geour gave Har­ry a cold, ap­prais­ing look . “I am here, as I'm sure you know, be­cause of Al­bus Dum­ble­dore's will,” he said .
The Min­istry is sup­posed to have pow­er­ful ev­idence that the de­ceased's pos­ses­sions are il­le­gal be­fore seiz­ing them! “Are you planning to fol­low a ca­reer in Mag­ical Law, Miss Granger?” asked Scrim­geour . “I'm hop­ing to do some good in the world!” Ron laughed .
Ron and Har­ry had nev­er been alone to­geth­er, and di­rect con­tact be­tween them had been neg­li­gi­ble . He put his hand in­side his cloak and drew out a draw­string pouch much larg­er than the one Ha­grid had giv­en. He re­moved a scroll of parch­ment which he un­rolled and read alou
“To Ronald Bil­ius Weasley, I leave my De­lu­mi­na­tor, in the hope that he will re­mem­ber me when he us­es it.’” Scrim­geour took from the bag an ob­ject that Har­ry had seen be­fore: It looked some­thing like a sil­ver cigarette lighter, but it had, he knew, the pow­er to suck
Ev­ident­ly Scrim­geour left a small book that looked as an­cient as the copy of Se­crets of the Dark­est Art up­stairs . Its bind­ing was stained and peel­ing in places . Hermione looked at the book and looked at it .
Ron had dif­fi­cul­ty ex­tract­ing his arm to put it around Hermione's shoul­ders . Scrim­geour turned back to the will. “I leave the Snitch he caught in his first Quid­ditch match at Hog­warts, as a re­minder of the rewards of per­se­ver­ance and skill .
“I no­tice that your birth­day cake is in the shape of a Snitch,” Scrim­geour said . “Oh, it can't be a ref­er­ence to the fact Har­ry's a great Seek­er, that's way too ob­vi­ous,” Hermione laughed de­ri­sive­ly .
Har­ry's heart was beat­ing rather fast. He was sure that Scrim­geour was right . “Per­haps you al­ready know what the Snitch con­tains?” “No,” said Scrim-geour .
Scrim­geour did not both­er to read from the will this time . “The sword of Go­dric Gryffind­or,” Hermione and Ron both stiffened .
Scrim­geour scratched his bad­ly shaven cheek, scru­ti­niz­ing Har­ry . “Maybe Dum­ble­dore want­ed to give me the sword?” he said .
Peo­ple are dy­ing – I was near­ly one of them – Volde­mort chased me across three coun­tries, he killed Mad- Eye Moody, but there's no word about any of that from the Min­istry, has there? And you still ex­pect us to co­op­er­ate with you!” shout­ed Scrim­geour, stand­ing up: Har­ry jumped to his feet too .
Scrim­geour breath­ing hard in­to Har­ry's face . “Re­mem­bered that I am not Dum­ble­dore, who for­gave your in­so­lence and in­sub­or­di­na­tion? You may wear that scar like a crown, Pot­ter, but it is not up to a sev­en­teen-year-old boy to tell me how to do my job! It
Scrim­geour's ex­pres­sion hardened. He turned away with an­oth­er word and limped from the room . Mrs. Weasley hur­ried af­ter him; Har­ry heard her stop at the back door . “To give us what Dum­ble­dore left us,” said Harry . Ev­ery­one ex­am­ined the De­lu­mi­na­tor .
Ron ex­am­ined his De­lu­mi­na­tor, and Har­ry filled Ha­grid's moke­skin purse . He pulled the string tight and slipped the purse around his neck . “Thought you didn't ap­prove of that spell?” said Hermione .
“The thing is,” whis­pered Hermione through the dark, “we could have achieved that with Pe­ru­vian In­stant Dark­ness Pow­der” There was a small click, and the ball of light from the lamp flew back to the ceil­ing and il­lu­mi­nat­ed them all once more . “Still, it's cool,” said Ron, a lit­tle de­fen
“I wasn't going to try too hard in front of Scrim­geour was I?” asked Har­ry . “The Snitch I caught in my first ev­er Quid­ditch match?” asked Hermione .
Hermione and Ron shook their heads, look­ing blank . “I open at the close....” What's that sup­posed to mean?” Ron fi­nal­ly said .
“Oh come on! All the old kids' sto­ries are sup­posed to be Bee­dle's aren't they? 'The Foun­tain of Fair For­tune'... 'Bab­bit­ty Rab­bitty and her Cack­ling Stump'... “Come off it!” said Hermione gig­gling .
Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows CHAPTER EIGHT THE WED­DING Three o’clock on the fol­low­ing af­ter­noon found Har­ry, Ron, Fred and George standing out­side the great white mar­quee in the or­chard . The plan was to in­tro­duce him as “Cousin Barny” and trust to the great num­ber of Weasley rel­atives to cam­ou­
Be­hind Har­ry could see a blue haze of pipe smoke is­su­ing from the spot . Out­side, but­ter­flies and bees were hov­er­ing lazi­ly over the grass and hedgerow . The Muggle boy whose ap­pear­ance he was af­fect­ing was slight­ly fat­ter than him and his dress robes felt hot and tight in the full glare of
fig­ures were ap­pear­ing, one by one out of nowhere at the dis­tant bound­ary of the yard . With­in min­utes a pro­ces­sion had formed, which be­gan to snake its way up through the gar­den to­ward the mar­quee . Ex­ot­ic flow­ers and be­witched birds flut­tered on the witch­es’ hats, while pre­cious gems gli
Tonks and Lupin had turned blonde for the oc­ca­sion . The Min­istry’s be­ing very an­ti- were­wolf at the mu­se­um . “It’s fine, I un­der­stand,” said Har­ry .
Har­ry hur­ried back to the en­trance to find Ron face-to- face with a most ec­cen­tric- look­ing wiz­ard . He wore a cap whose tas­sel dan­gled in front of his nose and robes of an eye- wa­ter­ing shade of egg- yolk yel­low . “I think you know my Lu­na?” he added to Ron
Lu­na was wearing bright yel­low robes, which she had ac­ces­sorized with a large sun­flow­er in her hair . At least there were no radish­es dan­gling from her ears . Gnome sali­va is enor­mous­ly ben­efi­cial.” Said Mr. Love­good .
“Ron can laugh,” said Lu­na, suck­ing her fin­ger in a dreamy fash­ion . Ron reap­peared with an el­derly witch clutch­ing his arm . “...and your hair’s much too long, Ronald,” she barked at Har­ry .
Ron gave Har­ry a mean­ing­ful look as he passed and did not reap­pear for some time . The Mar­quee was near­ly full now and for the first time there was no queue out­side . “Night­mare, Muriel is,” said Ron, mop­ping his fore­head on his sleeve . Dad al­ways says she’ll have writ­ten them out of her will .
“Your Great- Aunt Muriel doesn’t agree, I just met her up­stairs while she was giv­ing Fleur the tiara” . “Don’t take it per­son­al­ly, she’s rude to ev­ery­one,” said Ron .
Ron’s ears had turned bright red again . “I didn’t know you were – good­ness – it’s love­ly to see – how are you?” Krum said .
Har­ry, Ron and Hermione took their seats in the sec­ond row be­hind Fred and George . Af­ter a few mo­ments he mut­tered, but Krum was not re­al­ly lis­ten­ing .
Bill and Char­lie stood up at the front of the mar­quee with larg­er white ros­es in their but­ton­holes; Fred wolf- whis­tled and there was an out­break of gig­gling from the veela cousins . Fleur was wearing a very sim­ple white dress and seemed to be emit­ting a strong, sil­very glow . Gin­ny and Gabrielle, both wear­ing gold­
Har­ry’s mind wan­dered a long way from the mar­quee, back to the af­ter­noons spent alone with Gin­ny in lone­ly parts of the school grounds . They had al­ways seemed too good to be true, as though he had been steal­ing shin­ing hours from a nor­mal per­son’s life . Mrs. Weasley and Madame Dela­cour were both sob­
The scars on which they had been sit­ting rose grace­ful­ly in­to the air as the can­vas walls of the mar­quee van­ished, so that they stood be­neath a canopy sup­port­ed by gold­en poles . Next, a pool of molten gold spread from the cen­ter of the tent to form a gleam­ing dance floor .
Ron led the way across the emp­ty dance floor, glanc­ing left and right as he went . Har­ry lost track of the con­ver­sa­tion for a few mo­ments . The band had be­gun to play, Bill and Fleur took to the dance floor .
Vik­tor Krum had dropped in­to Lu­na’s va­cant seat . He said, “Who is that man in the yel­low?” “That’s Xenophilius Love­good, he’s the fa­ther of a friend of ours,” Ron said . “Come and dance,” he added abrupt­ly to Hermione .
Krum cracked his knuckles men­ac­ing­ly and glow­ered at Xenophilius . It seemed in­cred­ibly un­like­ly that Lu­na’s fa­ther was a sup­port­er of the Dark Arts .
Krum felt he was doing a bad job ex­plain­ing Lu­na and her fa­ther . “I am not mis­tak­en,” Krum said .
Ol­li­van­der ex­am­in­ing it care­ful­ly be­fore the Tri­wiz­ard Tour­na­ment . “He’s a wand­mak­er!” asked Krum sus­pi­cious­ly. “I...I read it some­where, I think,” said Krum .
Ol­li­van­der had con­quered the bor­rowed wand . Har­ry was looking­ing for an in­ter­na­tion­al Quid­ditch play­er if all the good-looking girls are tak­en?
Har­ry leaned up against one of the gold­en pil­lars and watched Gin­ny try­ing not to feel re­sent­ful about the promise he had giv­en Ron . He had nev­er been to a wed­ding be­fore, so he could not judge how Wiz­ard­ing cel­ebra­tions dif­fered from Mug­gle ones, though he was pret­ty sure
El­phias Doge, mem­ber of the Or­der of the Phoenix and writ­er of Dum­ble­dore’s obit­uary . In a flut­ter of ner­vous plea­sure Doge poured Har­ry a gob­let of cham­pagne .
Doge’s face flood­ed with an­gry col­or . “Oh yes, Har­ry, I saw it. That wom­an, or vul­ture might be a more ac­cu­rate term, pos­itive­ly pestered me to talk to her,” Doge said .
Har­ry looked in­to Doge’s earnest, pained face, and felt, not re­as­sured, but frus­trat­ed . Doge looked con­cerned and hur­ried on, “Har­ry, Ri­ta Skeeter is a dread­ful –“ But he was in­ter­rupt­ing . “She’s writ­ten a book about Dumble­
Doge looked stiff and solemn at this but Aun­tie Muriel drained her gob­let and clicked her bony fin­gers at a pass­ing wait­er for a re­placement . “I’m sorry you think so,” said Doge, more cold­ly still still .
Aun­tie Muriel looked de­light­ed at the ef­fect she had pro­duced . “Thought wrong, then, didn’t you, Bar­ry!” said Muriel .
“Why did half of us nev­er even know she ex­ist­ed, un­til they car­ried the cof­fin out of the house?” asked Har­ry. “What d’you mean, locked in the cel­lar?” Doge looked wretched . Aun­tie Muriel cack­led again and an­swered Harry .
Aun­tie Muriel turned back to Har­ry . “I tell you, that’s not what hap­pened!” said Doge . She was nev­er tak­en to St. Mun­go’s and no Heal­er was sum­moned .
Aun­tie Muriel snapped her fin­gers for more cham­pagne . Had Dum­ble­dore’s sis­ter suf­ered the same fate in re­verse: im­pris­oned for her lack of mag­ic? “If the moth­er in ques­tion was ca­pa­ble of im­pres­on­ing her daugh­ter for years on end, why not?” Muriel re
“Yes, Ar­iana might have killed Kendra in the strug­gle,” said Aun­tie Muriel hap­pi­ly . “His heart wasn’t the on­ly thing. Didn’t Aber­forth break Al­bus’ nose halfway through the ser­vice?” croaked Doge .
Muriel hiccup­ing slight­ly as she low­ered her gob­let . “I think Bathil­da has spilled the beans to Ri­ta Skeeter!” whis­pered Doge .
“Quite gaga these days, I’ve heard,” said Aun­tie Muriel . “Oh, there are ways of bring­ing back mem­ories, and I’m sure Ri­ta Skeeter knows them all,” said Doge .
Nev­er once told Har­ry they had both lived and lost loved ones in Go­dric’s Hol­low . Had Dum­ble­dore vis­it­ed their graves, per­haps walked past Lily’s and James’s to do so? And he had nev­er both­ered to say... And why it was so im­por­tant, Harry could not ex­plain even to him­self, yet he felt it had been
Har­ry and Hermione threw them­selves in­to the pan­ick­ing crowd . Some­thing large and sil­ver came falling through the canopy over the dance floor . Heads turned, as those near­est it froze ab­surd­ly in mid- dance . Then the Pa­tronus’s mouth opened wide and it spoke in the loud, deep, slow voice of Kings­ley Shackle­bolt .
Har­ry saw cloaked and masked fig­ures ap­pear­ing in the crowd . He saw Lupin and Tonks, their wands raised, and heard both of them shout, “Pro­tego!”, a cry that was echoed on all sides – “Ron! Ron!” Hermione called, half sob­bing as she was buffered by ter­ri­fied guests .
Har­ry and Ron were still wear­ing dress robes . “Why didn’t I make sure I had the Cloak with me?” said Ron .
“I’ve done it okay; any­way, I man­aged to fit ev­ery­thing we need in here,” said Hermione . “Oh, damn, that’ll be the books,” she said, peer­ing in­to it, “and I had them all stacked by sub­ject.” “When did you do all this?” Har­ry asked as Ron stripped off his robes .
“I’ve no idea, it just popped in­to my head, but I’m sure we’re safer out in the Muggle world, it’s not where they’ll ex­pect us to be” Ron asked Hermione . “It’s you they’re af­ter, Har­ry, and we’ll just put ev­ery­one in even more dan­ger by go­ing back.” “She’s right,” said Ron,
“Where else is there?” asked Hermione, cring­ing as the men on the oth­er side of the road start­ed wolf- whistling at her . “We can hard­ly book rooms at the Leaky Caul­dron, can we? And Grim­mauld Place is out if Snape can get in there!” “All right, dar­ling?” “Let’s sit down some­where!” “Look, this will do, in here!”
Ron shuf­fled over and Hermione or­dered two cap­puc­ci­nos . As Har­ry was in­vis­ible, it would have looked odd to or­der him one . “Can you do that talk­ing Pa­tronus thing, then?” asked Ron .
The wait­ress shot Ron a nasty look as she shuf­fled off to take the new cus­tomers’ or­ders . The larg­er of the two work­men, who was blond and quite huge, now that Har­ry came to look at him, waved her away . “Let’s get go­ing, then, I don’t want to drink this muck,” said Ron .
Har­ry sent an­oth­er Stun­ning Spell at the Death Eater with the twist­ed face who had tied up Ron . “Ex­pul­so!” hit the wait­ress, who col­lapsed in front of the door . The force of the ex­plo­sion slammed him in­to the wall and he felt his hand leave his hand as the Cloak slipped off him .
Har­ry climbed over all the de­bris to where the large blond Death Eater was sprawled across the bench . “I rec­og­nize him from the old want­ed posters. I think the big one’s Thorfinn Rowle.” “Nev­er mind what they’re called!” said Hermione .
Ron strug­gled for a mo­ment be­fore man­ag­ing to ex­tract his wand from his pock­et . “I’m so sor­ry,” hissed Hermione, and as she dragged the wait­ress out of sight of the win­dows, Har­ry heard her mut­ter a sug­ges­tion .
“How did they find us?” Hermione asked . “You – you don’t think you’ve still got your Trace on you, do you, Har­ry?” Ron said . The Trace breaks at sev­en­teen .
Hermione be­gan to ar­gue “so what? It’s the best chance we’ve got. Snape’s on­ly one Death Eater. If I’ve still got the Trace on me, we’ll have whole crowds of them on us wher­ev­er else we go.” Ron clicked the De­lu­mi­na­tor to re­lease the café’s light .
hous­es looked down on them from ev­ery side . Num­ber twelve was vis­ible to them, for they had been told of its ex­is­tence by Dum­ble­dore, its Se­cret- Keep­er, and they rushed to­ward it . They heard a se­ries of metal­lic clicks and the clat­ter of a chain .
Ron was mak­ing retch­ing nois­es; Hermione stam­mered, “That m- must have b- been the T- Tongue- Ty­ing Curse Mad- Eye set up for Snape!” Har­ry asked. “Maybe they’re on­ly ac­ti­vat­ed if he shows up?” Ron re­mained close to­geth­er on the door­mat, back
Gin­ger­ly Har­ry took an­oth­er step for­ward . A fig­ure had risen up out of the car­pet, tall, dust- col­ored, and ter­ri­ble . Hermione screamed and Mrs. Black, her cur­tains fly­ing open .
“It was a spell to re­veal hu­man presence, and there’s no­body here ex­cept us!” said Ron, glanc­ing at the patch of car­pet from which the corpse-fig­ure had risen .
“Let’s go up,” said Hermione with a frightened look at the same spot . Ron crossed to the win­dow and moved heavy vel­vet cur­tains aside an inch . “Can’t see any­one out there,” he re­port­ed .
Har­ry, Dumble­dore didn’t want you to use that con­nec­tion, he wanted­ed you to shut it down, that’s why you were sup­posed to use Oc­clu­men­cy! Oth­er­wise Volde­mort can plant false im­ages in your mind, re­mem­ber .
Har­ry drew his wand again and spun around to see a sil­ver Pa­tronus soar through the draw­ing room win­dow and land up­on the floor in front of them . “Fam­ily safe, do not re­ply, we are be­ing watched,” Ron said . He said over Hermione’s shoul­der, “I do feel the same way.” The pain in his scar was reaching a peak, burn­
Lord Volde­mort is not sure that he will for­give this time . Har­ry drew heav­ing breaths and opened his eyes . He was spread- ea­gled on the cold black mar­ble floor, his nose inch­es from one of the sil­ver ser­pent tails that sup­port­ed the large bath­tub .
Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows CHAPTER TEN KREACH­ER’S TALE Har­ry woke ear­ly next morn­ing wrapped in a sleep­ing bag on the draw­ing room floor . A chink of sky was vis­ible be­tween the heavy cur­tains . It was the cool, clear blue of wa­tered ink, some­where .
The grief that had pos­sessed him since Dum­ble­dore’s death felt dif­fer­ent now . Had he been like Dud­ley, con­tent to watch ne­glect and abuse as long as it did not af­fect him? Could he have turned his back on a sis­ter who was be­ing im­pris­oned and hid­den?
Har­ry thought of graves Dum­ble­dore had nev­er men­tioned there . He thought of mys­te­ri­ous ob­jects left with­out ex­pla­na­tion . Why hadn’t Dumble­denore ex­plained? Had Dum–ble­dinore ac­tu­al­ly cared about Har–ry at all? Or had he been noth
Some­body had searched the house since the Or­der had left . Har­ry’s gaze wan­dered to the por­trait that some­times con­tained Phineas Nigel­lus Black, Sir­ius’ great-great grand­fa­ther .
Har­ry pushed open the door, holding his wand high to cast light as wide­ly as pos­si­ble . The room was spa­cious and must once have been hand­some . There was a large bed with a carved wood­en head­board, a tall win­dow ob­scured by long vel­vet cur­tains .
Har­ry could as­sume that Sir­ius’ par­ents had been un­able to re­move the Per­ma­nent Stick­ing Charm that kept them on the wall be­cause he was sure they would not have ap­pre­ci­at­ed their el­dest son’s taste in dec­ora­tion . There were sev­er­al large Gryffind­or ban­ners,
Sir­ius had tak­en no chances in pre­vent­ing his par­ents from re­dec­orating his room . To Sirius’s right stood Pet­ti­grew, more than a head short­er, plump and wa­tery- eyed, flushed with plea­sure at his in­clu­sion . On James’s left was Lupin, even then a lit­tle shab­by- look­ing
Har­ry bent down, picked up a few pieces of pa­per, and ex­am­ined them . He rec­og­nized one as a part of an old edi­tion of A His­to­ry of Mag­ic . The third was hand­writ­ten and crum­pled .
We had a very qui­et birth­day tea, just us and old Bathil­da who has al­ways been sweet to us and who dotes on Gar­ry . We were so sor­ry you couldn’t come, but the Or­der’s got to come first, and Har­ry’s not old enough to know it’s his birth–day any­way . If you could vis­it, it would cheer him up so much .
I don’t know how much to believe, ac­tu­al­ly be­cause it seems in­cred­ible that Dum­ble­dore Har­ry’s ex­trem­ities seemed to have gone numb . He stood quite still, holding the mirac­ulous pa­per in his nerve­less fin­gers while in­side him a kind of qui­et erup­tions sent joy and grief thun­der
Dum­ble­dore tak­en James’s In­vis­ibil­ity Cloak... there was some­thing fun­ny there... Har­ry passed on... Wormy was here... Pet­ti­grew, the traitor, had seemed “down” had he? And fi­nal­ly Bathil­da again, who told in­cred­ible sto­ries .
Har­ry pulled open draw­ers, shook out books, stood on a chair to run his hand over the top of the wardrobe, and crawled un­der the bed and arm­chair . At last, ly­ing face­down on the floor, it proved to be most of the pho­to­graph that Lily had de­scribed in her let­ter .
Af­ter an­oth­er quar­ter of an hour, how­ev­er he was forced to con­clude that the rest of his let­ter was gone . Har­ry read the first sheet again, looking­ing for clues as to what might have made the sec­ond sheet valu­able . The on­ly po­ten­tial­ly use­ful thing could see her was pos­si­ble in­for­ma­tion on Du
Hermione looked up at the ba­by while Har­ry watched her . “I’ve been look­ing for the rest of the let­ter,” Harry said, “but it’s not here.” “Some­one had searched be­fore me,” said Harry .
Ron’s Aun­tie Muriel was talking about her at the wed­ding . She knew Dum­ble­dore’s fam­ily too . He took back the let­ter and the pho­tograph and tucked them in­side the pouch around his neck .
Doge is right, how can you let these peo­ple tar­nish your mem­ories of Dum­ble­dore? He want­ed the truth. Choose what to believe . There was deep scratch marks in the paint­work be­low a small sign that he had not no­tice in the dark .
Hermione shook his head, point­ing at Reg­ulus’s sign . “He was a Death Eater,” said Har­ry. “That fits!” she whis­pered .
Reg­ulus Arc­turus pushed the door: It was locked . Hermione point­ed her wand at the han­dle and said, “Alo­hamo­ra.” They moved over the thresh­old to­geth­er, gaz­ing around . The Slytherin col­ors of emer­ald and sil­ver were ev­ery­where, drap­ing the bed
Har­ry, mean­while, had no­ticed an­oth­er pho­to­graph: a Hog­warts Quid­ditch team was smil­ing and wav­ing out of the frame . He moved clos­er and saw the snakes em­bla­zoned on their chests: Slytherins . Reg­ulus was in­stant­ly rec­og­niz­able as the
Ron, who had been searching the folds of the fad­ed cur­tains, looked dis­ap­pointed . “Oh, it could still be here, but un­der counter- en­chantments,” said Hermione .
Har­ry and Ron looked at her. “Some­thing wrong?” asked Ron . “It could be some­where else in the house, though,” said Hermione in a ral­ly­ing tone .
Har­ry ran down the stairs tak­ing two steps at a time, the oth­er two thun­der­ing along in his wake . “Filth! Mud­bloods! Scum!” she screamed af­ter them as they dashed down in­to the base­ment kitchen and slammed the door be­hind them . There was the nest of dirty old blan­kets in which the house- 
Har­ry was still wearing the filthy rag in which they had met him . “Mas­ter,” croaked Kreach­er in his bull­frog’s voice, and he bowed low; mut­ter­ing to his knees, “back in my Mis­tress’s old house with the blood- traitor Weasley and the Mud­blood –“ . „I for­bid you to call any­one ‘blood traitor’ or ‘M
“Where is it now?” asked Har­ry ju­bi­lant­ly as Ron and Hermione looked glee­ful . “Mundun­gus Fletch­er,” croaked the elf, his eyes still tight shut .
Kreach­er lay flat on the cold stone floor, tears gush­ing from his eyes . “So he can beat him­self up with the pok­er?” snort­ed Har­ry, kneel­ing be­side the elf .
Mas­ter Reg­ulus sat up, curled in­to a ball, placed his wet face be­tween his knees, and be­gan to rock back­ward and for­ward . When he spoke, his voice was muf­fled but quite dis­tinct in the silent, echo­ing kitchen . “Mas­ter Sir­ius ran away, good rid­dance, for he was a bad boy and broke my Mis­tress’s
Kreach­er went to the Dark Lord. The Dark Lord did not tell him what they were to do, but took him to a cave be­yond the sea . And in the cav­ern was a great black lake ... “ The hairs on the back of Har­ry’s neck stood up . “... There had been a boat ... There was an is­land in the cen­ter ...” Volde­mort test­ed the de­fen
Har­ry’s imag­ina­tion could go no fur­ther, for he could not see how Kreach­er had es­caped . “I know – but how did you e­cape the In­feri?” he asked, and he was not sur­prised to hear him whis­per­ing .
Har­ry di­gest­ed this. How could Volde­mort have made such a mistake? But even as he thought this, Hermione spoke, and her voice was icy . “The house- elf’s high­est law is his Mas­ter’s bid­ding,” in­toned Kreach­er .
Mas­ter Reg­ulus came to find Kreach­er in his cup­board one night . He asked Kreach–er to take him to the cave, where he had gone with the Dark Lord ... “ And so they had set off. Har­ry could vi­su­al­ize them quite clear­ly, the fright­ened old elf and the thin, dark Seek­er who had so re­sem­bled Sir­ius .
Kreach­er drank lock­ets and watched as Mas­ter Regulus was dragged be­neath the wa­ter . At once he was on his feet, cring­ing away from her, quite ob­vi­ous­ly re­pulsed . “Stop him – stop him!” shout­ed Har­ry .
Kreach­er tried to de­stroy it, but noth­ing, not­ing would work . And his mis­tress was mad with grief, be­cause Mas­ter Reg­ulus had dis­ap­peared . He could not tell her what had hap­pened . Tears flowed down Hermione’s cheeks .
Reg­ulus died to bring Volde­mort down, but you were still hap­py to be­tray Sir­ius to Volde-mort? “Harry, Kreach­er doesn’t think like that,” said Hermione, wip­ing her eyes on the back of her hand . “He’s a slave; house- elves are used to bad, even bru­tal treat­ment” .
Sir­ius ev­er was starv­ing for a bit of af­fec­tion when he turned up . Kreach­er hic­cupped him­self in­to si­lence . Then he pushed him in to a sit­ting po­si­tion again, rub­bing his knuck­les in his eyes like a small child.
“Kreach­er, I want you, please, to go and find Mundun­gus Fletch­er,” said Har­ry . “We want to fin­ish the work Mas­ter Reg­ulus start­ed, we want to – er ... en­sure that he didn’t die in vain,” Har­ries said .
Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows CHAPTER ELEVEN THE BRIBE . It took them near­ly half an hour to calm down Kreach­er . When fi­nal­ly he was able to tot­ter a few steps they all ac­com­panied him to his cup­board .
Kreach­er did not re­turn that morn­ing or even that af­ter­noon . By night­fall, Har­ry felt dis­cour­aged and anx­ious, and a sup­per com­posed large­ly of moldy bread, up­on which Hermione had tried a va­ri­ety of un­suc­cess­ful Trans­fig­ura­tions .
The pres­ence of the Death Eaters out­side in­creased the omi­nous mood in­side num­ber twelve . They had not heard a word form any­one be­yond Grim­mauld Place since Mr. Weasley’s Pa­tronus . Ron had de­vel­oped an an­noy­ing habit of playing with the De­lu­mi-na­tor in his pock­e
Un­able to stand the bick­er­ing, Har­ry slipped out of the room un­no­ticed by ei­ther of them . He head­ed down­stairs to­ward the kitchen, which he kept vis­it­ing be­cause he was sure that was where Kreach­er was most like­ly to reap­pear . Halfway down the flight of stairs in­to the hall, how­ev­er,
Ron and Hermione came crash­ing down the stairs be­hind Har­ry, wands point­ing, like his, at the un­known man now standing with his arms raised in the hall be­low . “Hold your fire, it’s me, Re­mus!” “Oh, thank good­ness,” said Ron . Lupin moved for­ward in­to the lamp­light, hands still held high in a ges­ture of surren­der .
Lupin pulled a few but­ter­beers from be­neath his trav­el­ing cloak and they sat down . They ex­plained what had hap­ened; when they had fin­ished, Lupin looked aghast .
“Im­pos­si­ble to track any­one who Ap­pa­rates, unless you grab hold of them as they dis­ap­pear.” “We won­dered,” said Hermione ten­ta­tive­ly, “whether Har­ry could still have the Trace on him?” He looked dis­turbed . “We haven’t heard a thing since Ron’s dad told us the fam­ily was safe”
Har­ry looked at Ron and Hermione; their ex­pres­sions re­flect­ed the min­gled shock and grat­itude he felt . “The Death Eaters searched the Bur­row from top to bot­tom,” Lupin went on . They were trying to get in­for­ma­tion on you, Harry, but of course no­body knew that you had been there .
“The Death Eaters have got the full might of the Min­istry on their side now,” Lupin said . “They’ve got the pow­er to per­form bru­tal spells with­out fear of iden­ti­fi­ca­tion or ar­rest. They man­aged to pen­etrate ev­ery de­fen­sive spell we’d cast against them . They were both­er­ing to give an ex­c
Ron and Hermione gave roars of out­rage, but Har­ry said noth­ing . He pushed the news­pa­per away; he did not want to read any­more: He knew what it would say . “So Death Eaters have tak­en over the Dai­ly Prophet too?” Lupin nod­ded .
Volde­mort has sown doubt and fear amongst many who would have de­fend­ed you . The Min­istry has started mov­ing against Muggle- borns .
Hermione turned the pages with much the same ex­pres­sion of dis­taste she had when han­dling Se­crets of the Dark­est Art . “‘The Min­istry of Mag­ic is un­der­tak­en by the De­part­ment of Mys­ter­ies re­veals that mag­ic can on­ly be passed to per­son . ‘Mug­gle- borns” the bet­ter to un
“I know,” said Lupin. “Nev­er­the­less, un­less you can prove that you have at least one close Wiz­ard­ing rel­ative, you are now deemed to have ob­tained your mag­ical pow­er il­le­gal­ly and must suf­fer the pun­ish­ment.” Ron glanced at Hermione, then said, “What if pure­bloods ... swear a Mug­gle-
Volde­mort will have the whole Wiz­ard­ing pop­ula­tion un­der his eye from a young age . It’s al­so an­oth­er way of weed­ing out Mug­gle- borns, be­cause stu­dents must be giv­en Blood Sta­tus . At this mo­ment, ex­cit­ed eleven-year-olds would be por­ing over stacks of new
Har­ry looked in­to the pre­ma­ture­ly lined face, framed in thick but gray­ing hair, and wished that he could re­turn a dif­fer­ent an­swer . “I thought you’d say that,” said Lupin, look­ing dis­ap­point­ed .
“Re­mus,” said Hermione ten­ta­tive­ly, is ev­ery­thing all right . “Oh, how won­der­ful!” squealed Lupin. “Ex­cel­lent!” said Ron en­thu­si­as­ti­cal­ly. “Con­grat­ula­tions,” said Har­ry.
Ron and Hermione looked at Har­ry. “You want to leave Tonks at her par­ents’ house and come away with us?” Lupin said . “I’m pret­ty sure my fa­ther would have wanted­ed to know why you aren’t stick­ing with your own kid, ac­tu­al­ly.” Lupin’s face drained of col­or.
Lupin ac­tu­al­ly seized hand­fuls of his own hair; he looked quite de­ranged . “I’d be pret­ty ashamed of him,” whis­pered Hermione, tears in her eyes .
Lupin drew his wand so fast that Har­ry had bare­ly reached for his own . He felt him­self fly­ing backward as if punched; as he slammed in­to the kitchen wall and slid to the floor . “Remus, Re­mus, come back!” Lupin did not re­spond .
“Don’t look at me like that!” he snapped at Hermione . “You shouldn’t have said that stuff to Lupin,” Ron told Har­ry . He had it com­ing to him,” Ron said .
Ron looked sym­pa­thet­ic, Ron un­cer­tain . He looked down at his feet, think­ing of his fa­ther . Would James have backed Har­ry in what he had said to Lupin?
Ron and Hermione had re­sumed their silent com­mu­ni­ca­tions on the oth­er side of the Prophet . He turned a page loud­ly, and Dumble­dore’s name leapt out at him . It was a mo­ment or two be­fore he took in the mean­ing of the pho­to­graph .
Har­ry thought of pho­tos of Na­tive Americans he’d seen as he stud­ied her dark eyes, high cheek­bones, and straight nose . Al­bus and Aber­forth wore match­ing lacy col­lared jack­ets and had iden­ti­cal, shoul­der-length hairstyles . The fam­ily looked quite hap­py and nor­mal, 
Kendra Dumble­dore af­ter her husband Per­ci­val’s well- pub­li­cized ar­rest and im­pris­on­ment in Azk­aban . She there­fore de­cid­ed to up­root the fam­ily and re­lo­cate to Go­dric’s Hol­low, the vil­lage that was lat­er to gain fame as the scene of
Kendra made a de­ci­sion to hide Ar­iana’s ex­is­tence rather than suf­fer the shame of ad­mit­ting that she had pro­duce a Squib . It seems that Kendra thought the move to Go­dric’s Hol­low was the per­fect op­por­tu­ni­ty to hide some­thing she had prob­ably been plan­ning for years .
Har­ry wanted to vis­it the place where he and Dumble­dore had lost loved ones . He was in the pro­cess of low­er­ing the news­pa­per to ask Ron’s and Hermione’s opin­ions when a deaf­en­ing crack echoed around the kitchen . His im­me­di­ate thought was that Lupin had burst back in­to the room, and for a
“What?” he bel­lowed, writhing in his at­tempts to free him­self from Ron’s grip . “You’re not in much of a po­si­tion to make threats,” said Har­ry . Mundun­gus stopped strug­gling and looked ter­ri­fied .
I nev­er vol­un­teered to die for you, an’ that was bleed­in’ You- Know-Who come fly­ing at me, any­one woul­da got out­ta there . “We’re not in­ter­est­ed in why you ran out on Mad- Eye,” said Har­ry, mov­ing his wand to Mundun­gus’s bag­gy, blood­shot eyes .
Har­ry be­gan had tak­en a run at Mundun­gus and hit him over the head with a saucepan . Kreach­er’s thin arms trem­bled with the weight of the pan, still held aloft . “We need him con­scious, Mas­ter, but if he needs per­suad­ing, you can do the hon­ors,” said Harry .
“No, he hasn’t,” said Ron shrewd­ly . “He’s won­der­ing whether he should have asked more mon­ey for it.” “More?” said Mundun­gus .
num­ber twelve was nev­er seen by any­one in the sur­round­ing hous­es . The mug­gles who lived in Grim­mauld Place had long since ac­cept­ed the amus­ing mis­take . But the square was now at­tracting a trick­le of vis­itors who seemed to find the anoma­ly most in­trigu­ing, al­though they all seemed to share
watch­ers ap­peared to have seen some­thing in­ter­est­ing at last . On the first day of Septem­ber there were more peo­ple lurking in the square . Half a dozen men in long cloaks stood silent and watch­ful .
Har­ry had near­ly lost his bal­ance as he Ap­pa­rat­ed on­to the top step just out­side the front door . He pulled off the In­vis­ibil­ity Cloak, draped it over his arm, and hur­ried along the gloomy hall­way to­ward the door that led to the base­ment . “I didn’t kill you,” he said, once it had unrolled, then held his breath as the dust
a fa­mil­iar, hook- nosed, black-haired man stared up at them all, be­neath a head­line that read: “What’s hap­pened?” Ron asked ap­pre­hen­sive­ly . “Shoes off, if you please, Mas­ter Har­ry, and hands washed be­fore din­ner,” Regulus’s lock­et boun
SEVERUS SNAPE CON­FIRMED AS HOG­WARTS HEAD­MAS­TER “No!” said Ron and Hermione loud­ly . “Severus Snape, long-standing Po­tions mas­ter at Hog­warts School of Witchcraft and wiz­ardry, was to­day ap­point­ed head­mas­ters in the most im­por­tant of sev­er­al staffing changes at the an
Kreach­er came bustling to the ta­ble with a large curcen in his hands . He la­dled out soup in­to pris­tine bowls, whistling be­tween his teeth as he did so . “I reck­on they’ll stay to try and pro­tect the stu­dents,” said Har­ry .
Ron glanced at his watch. It left near­ly six hours ago. Weird, not be­ing on it, isn’t it? In his mind’s eye Har­ry seemed to see the scarlet steam en­gine as he and Ron had once fol­lowed it by air, shim­mer­ing be­tween fields and hills, a rip­pling scar­let cater­pil­lar . He was sure Gin­ny,
“Phineas Nigel­lus,” Hermione ex­plained as she threw the bag on­to the kitchen ta­ble with the usu­al sonorous, clank­ing crash . “Sor­ry?” said Ron, but Har­ry un­der­stood .
Ron nod­ded his ap­pre­ci­ation of this news . The had agreed that it was far too dan­ger­ous to try and com­mu­cate with Mr. Weasley while he walked in and out of the Min­istry . It was, how­ev­er, re­as­sur­ing to catch these glimpses of him .
“You do re­al­ize, don’t you, that there’s prob­ably no more dan­ger­ous place in the whole world for us to be right now than the Min­istry of –“ Har­ry said . The longer we put it off, the far­ther away that lock­et could be .
“We know ev­ery­thing im­por­tant,” Har­ry went on, ad­dress­ing Hermione . “They’ve stopped Ap­pari­tion in and out of the Min­istry . We know on­ly the most se­nior Min­isters are al­lowed to con­nect their homes to the Floo Net­work now, be­cause Ron heard those two Un­speak­ables com­plain
Ron and Hermione had spent the pre­vi­ous four weeks tak­ing it in turns to don the In­vis­ibil­ity Cloak . They had tailed Min­istry work­ers on their way in, eaves­dropped on their con­ver­sa­tions, and learned by care­ful ob­ser­va­tion which of them could be re­lied up­on to ap­pear, alone, at the same
Ron and Hermione laughed, pain shot through the scar on Har­ry’s fore­head . His hand jumped to it, and he tried to pass off the move­ment by brush­ing his hair out of his eyes . At once, Kreach­er hur­ried for­ward .
He ap­proached one of them, then saw the whiteness of his own long- fin­gered hand against the door . He knocked. He felt a mount­ing ex­cite­ment . “Er wohnt hi­er nicht mehr!” she cried, shak­ing her head .
Ron was right be­hind her, look­ing un­nerved as he point­ed his wand in­side at once . “Oh yeah ... I must’ve dozed off!” asked Hermione stern­ly. “You were yelling your head off!” said Ron .
Har­ry fal­tered un­der the look he gave her as he stood up . “I hate it, I hate the fact that he can get in­side me, that I have to watch him when he’s most dan­ger­ous. But I’m go­ing to use it.” “He’s a foreign wand­mak­er,” said Ron .
Har­ry glanced in­to the cracked, dusty mir­ror and saw Ron and Hermione ex­chang­ing skep­ti­cal looks be­hind his back . “Be­cause I know it wasn’t me! And so does Volde­mort! We both know what re­al­ly hap­pened!” They glared at each oth­er . He knew that he had not con­vinced Herm
Har­ry lay in bed with his wan­dlight trained on the old pho­to­graph of his fa­ther, Sir­ius, Lupin, and Pet­ti­grew . As he ex­tin­guished his wand, how­ev­er, he was think­ing not of Polyjuice Po­tion, Puk­ing Pastilles, or the navy blue robes of Mag­ical Main­te­nance .
Hermione was be­ing served cof­fee and hot rolls by Kreach­er and wear­ing the slight­ly man­ic ex­pres­sion that Har­ry as­so­ci­at­ed with ex­am re­view . They gulped down their break­fast, then set off up­stairs, bow­ing them out and promis­ing to have a steak- and- kid­ney pie ready for them .
Af­ter the brief spell of dark­ness and near suf­fo­ca­tion, Har­ry found him­self in the tiny al­ley­way where the first phase of their plan was sched­uled to take place . It was as yet de­sert­ed, ex­cept for a cou­ple of large bins; the first Min­istry work­ers did not usu­al­ly ap­pear here un­til
Hermione bare­ly had time to en­joy the un­ex­pect­ed warmth, how­ev­er, be­fore her silent Stun­ning Spell hit her in the chest and she top­pled over . Ron was rum­mag­ing through the lit­tle witch’s hand­bag .
Hermione drank the Polyjuice Po­tion, which was now a pleas­ant he­liotrope col­or . She re­moved Mafal­da’s spec­ta­cles and put them on . Har­ry and Ron threw the In­vis­ibil­ity Cloak over them­selves .
The lit­tle wiz­ard started vom­it­ing so hard that he did not even no­tice as Hermione yanked a hand­ful of hairs from the top of his head . He choked and retched, try­ing to con­tin­ue on his way de­spite be­ing un­able to walk straight .
“It would have made much less mess to Stun him too,” said Ron, emerg­ing from un­der the cloak hold­ing the wiz­ard’s bag . “We’re Reg Cat­ter­mole, ac­cord­ing to the la­bel in the back,” Hermione told Har­ry . He had to wait ten min­utes, but it seemed much longer .
Har­ry and Kreach­er joined a num­ber of odd­ly dressed men de­scend­ing in­to what ap­peared to be an or­di­nary un­der­ground pub­lic toi­let . In­vis­ibil­ity Cloak and his glass­es in­side his new robes stepped out of the al­ley­way to­geth­er .
Ron and Har­ry let them­selves in­to ad­join­ing cu­bi­cles . He crouched down and peered through the gap at the bot­tom . “Looks like it,” Harry whis­pered back; his voice came out deep and grav­el­ly. They both stood up .
Atri­um seemed dark­er than Har­ry re­mem­bered it . Now a gi­gan­tic stat­ue of black stone dom­inat­ed the scene . It was rather fright­en­ing, this vast sculp­ture of a witch and a wiz­ard sit­ing on or­nate­ly carved thrones .
“Oh, very fun­ny ... It’s hor­ri­ble, isn’t it?” Ron said to Har­ry, who was star­ing up at the stat­ue . “Have you seen what they’re sitting on?” He looked more close­ly and re­al­ized that what he had thought were dec­ora­tive­ly carved thrones . They joined the stream of witch­es and wiz­ards
The Min­istry work­ers be­side them fell silent, their eyes down­cast . Har­ry could feel fear rip­pling through them . Ron looked around as though hop­ing some­body else would in­ter­vene . A pair of witch­es broke away from the queue for the lift and bustled off .
Har­ry, Ron, and Hermione en­tered theirs, but no­body fol­lowed them . The gold­en grille shut with a clang and the lift be­gan to move up­ward . It was as if they were in­fec­tious .
“We’ll come with you, we should stick to­geth­er –“ be­gan Har­ry . “Try Fi­nite In­can­tatem,” said Hermione at once, “that should stop the rain if it’s a hex or curse” . A dis­em­bod­ied fe­male voice said, “Say it again, slow­ly – “ .
“Morn­ing, Al­bert,” said a bushi­ly whiskered man, smil­ing at Ron and Hermione . The wiz­ard leaned to­ward Har­ry, leer­ing and mut­ter­ing . “Lev­el two, De­part­ment of Mag­ical Law En­force­ment,” in­clud­ing the Im­prop­er Use of mag­ic Of­fice, Au­r
Four peo­ple stood be­fore them, two of them deep in con­ver­sa­tion . Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows CHAPTER THIRTEEN THE MUG­GLE- BORN REG­IS­TRA­TION COM­MIS­SION “Ah, Mafal­da!” said Um­bridge, looking­ing at Hermione .
Har­ry saw hermione’s anx­ious face sink­ing back out of sight . Hes­itat­ed for a frac­tion of a sec­ond, “Arthur Weasley.” “Ah, well. It’s on­ly a mat­ter of time,” said Plum Thick­nesse.
Har­ry watched Thick­nesse march away along the thick­ly car­pet­ed cor­ri­dor . The mo­ment the Min­is­ter had passed out of sight . Run­corn was so tall that Harry was forced to stoop to make sure his big feet were hid­den.
Ron and Hermione had con­cen­trat­ed all their ef­forts on getting in­side with­out be­ing de­tect­ings . They had not giv­en a mo­ment’s thought to what they would do if they were forced to sep­arate . Ron was strug­gling to do mag­ic that Har­ry was sure was be­yond him, a wom­
Har­ry emerged in­to a wide, open space where a dozen witch­es and wiz­ards sat in rows at small desks not un­like school desks . They were all wav­ing and twid­dling their wands in uni­son, and squares of col­ored pa­per were fly­ing in ev­ery di­rec­tion like lit­tle pink kites. Af­ter a
Har­ry crept clos­er, al­though the work­ers were so in­tent on what they were doing­ing that he doubt­ed they would no­tice a car­pet- muf­fled foot­step . He ex­am­ined it be­neath the In­vis­ibil­ity Cloak . It was a pic­ture of a red rose with a sim­per­ing face in the mid­dle
A large, round eye with a bright blue iris had been set in­to the wood . He even for­got that he was in­vis­ible. He strode straight over to the door to ex­am­ine the eye . It gazed blind­ly up­ward, frozen .
Har­ry turned the doorknob, stepped in­to Um­bridge’s of­fice, and closed the door be­hind him . The walls bore the same or­na­men­tal plates, each fea­tur­ing a high col­ored, berib­boned kit­ten, gam­bol­ing and frisk­ing with sick­en­ing cute­ness .
Arthur Weasley Blood Sta­tus: Pure­blood, but with un­ac­cept­able pro- Muggle lean­ings . Sev­en chil­dren, two youngest at Hog­warts, has con­firmed . Strong like­li­hood Un­de­sir­able No. 1 will con­tact .
Har­ry mut­tered un­der his breath as he re­placed Mr. Weasley’s fold­er and shut the draw­er . He saw a poster of him­self on the wall with the words UN­DE­SIR­ABLE NO. 1 em­bla­zoned across his chest . A lit­tle pink note was stuck to it with a pic­ture of a kit­ten in the cor­ner .
Har­ry opened the book at ran­dom and saw a full-page pho­to­graph of two teenage boys, both laughing im­mod­er­ate­ly with their arms around each oth­er’s shoul­ders . The boy who roared in silent amuse­ment be­side Dum­ble­dore had a glee­ful, wild look about him .
Har­ry hur­ried off up the cor­ri­dor as the young witch said, “I bet it sneaked up here from Ex­per­imen­tal Charms, they’re so care­less, remem­ber that poi­sonous duck?” . Thick­nesse fi­nal­ly walked to the desk and point­ed his wand at the quill stand­ing ready in the ink pot . It sp
Har­ry jumped in and pulled off the In­vis­ibil­ity Cloak as it started its de­scent . The lift was emp­ty when it ar­rived, and Ron got in . “Ron, it’s me!” “Har­ry! Blimey, I for­got what you looked like – why isn’t Hermione with you?” He stam­mered .
Mr. Weasley broke off; he had no­ticed Har­ry . The lift doors closed and the four of them trun­dled down­ward once more . “Yax­ley’s office is rain­ing,” said Ron .
Har­ry tried to get out, but this time found his way blocked by Mr. Weasley’s arm . He de­cid­ed his best chance was to act stupid . “You tracked down the wiz­ard who faked his fam­ily tree, didn’t you?” he said .
Mr. Weasley gave Har­ry a scathing look and swept from the lift . He wished he was im­per­son­at­ing some­body oth­er than Run­corn .
De­coy Det­ona­tors re­mem­bered on the left hand side, which opened on­to the flight of stairs down to the court cham­bers . He nei­ther con­firmed or de­nied it, but bent to light the fire . Har­ry asked, walk­ing across to Sirius' mir­ror, the twin of the one he had bro­ken . “How did you get this?” Har
Muggle- borns brought in for ques­tion sat hud­dled and shiv­er­ing on hard wood­en bench­es . Most of them were hid­ing their faces in their hands, per­haps in an in­stinc­tive at­tempt . They were glid­ing up and down in front of them, and the cold and the hope­less­ness laid them­selves up­on Harry like
Arkie Alder­ton, a well known broom­stick de­sign­er, screams echoed out of the cor­ri­dor . Ron gasped. “No, no, I’m half- blood... I tell you! This is your fi­nal warn­ing,” said Um­bridge’s soft voice, mag­ical­ly mag­ni­fied so that it sound­ed clear­ly .
Two de­men­tors ap­peared in the door­way of the court­room, their rot­ting, scabbed hands clutch­ing the up­per arms of a wiz­ard . They glid­ed away down the cor­ri­dor with him, and the dark­ness they trailed be­hind them swal­lowed him from sight .
Um­bridge, Yax­ley, and Hermione tak­ing a seat be­hind the lat­ter . Har­ry was wor­ried about mak­ing her jump . She jumped so vi­olent­ly she near­ly over­turned bot­tle of ink .
Mrs. Cat­ter­mole nod­ded, mop­ping her eyes on her sleeve . “Could you please tell us from which witch or wiz­ard you took that wand?” he said . It was not the same room in which he had once been in­terro­gat­ed for im­prop­er use of mag­ic .
De­men­tors stood like face­less sen­tinels in the cor­ners far­thest from the high, raised plat­form . Here, Um­bridge, with Yax­ley on one side of her, and Hermione, quite as white- faced as Mrs. Cat­ter­mole, on the oth­er . Har­ry and Ron sat slumped dozi­ly in “Sit down,” um­bridge said .
Mrs. Cat­ter­mole sobbed hard­er than ev­er . "We need to get in­to Hog­warts," Um­bridge ig­nored her .
Um­bridge laughed a soft girl­ish laugh that made Har­ry want to at­tack her . She leaned for­ward over the bar­ri­er, the bet­ter to ob­serve her vic­tim, and dan­gled over the void: the lock­et . Wands on­ly choose witch­es or wiz­ards. You are not a witch, Mrs. Cat­ter­mole said .
“What?” snapped Um­bridge, glanc­ing down . “Oh yes – an old fam­ily heirloom,” she said . ‘The S stands for Sel­wyn.... I am re­lat­ed to the Sel­rows.... In­deed, there are few pure- blood . ...A pity,” she con­tin­ued .
Mrs. Cat­ter­mole’s pa­pers slid off her lap on­to the floor and, down be­low, the prowl­ing sil­ver cat van­ished . Yax­ley looked around for the source of the trou­ble and saw Har­ry’s dis­em­bodied hand and wand point­ing at him .
The sil­ver stag soared from the tip of Harry’s wand and leaped to­ward the de­men­tors . “Get the Hor­crux,” Har­ry told Hermione . He ran back down the steps, stuff­ing the In­vis­ibil­ity Cloak in­to his back, and ap­proached Mrs. Cat­ter­mole .
“You’re go­ing to leave here with us,” said Har­ry . The stag slowed and walked, still gleam­ing bright­ly, to­ward the door . “It’s the on­ly spell she ev­er has trou­ble with,” she said .
Mug­gle- borns were daz­zled by the light of the Pa­tronus­es and still cow­er­ing slight­ly . They man­aged to get up the stone stops with­out be­ing in­ter­cept­ed, but as they ap­proached the lifts Har­ry started­ing to have mis­giv­ings .
“Run­corn let me out, he at­tacked Um­bridge and Yax­ley, and he’s told all of us to leave the coun­try.” “Wa­ter,” mut­tered Ron, dis­en­gag­ing him­self . “I reck­on we’ve got five min­utes if that–“ Hermione’s Pa­tronus van­ished with a pop as she turned a hor­
Har­ry whis­pered to the group of ter­ri­fied Muggle- borns who moved for­ward in a hud­dle . “What’s up, Al­bert?” said the same bald­ing wiz­ard .
Har­ry boomed to the Mug­gle- borns, who scur­ried for­ward in­to the fire­places and be­gan to van­ish in pairs . The Min­istry wiz­ards hung back, some look­ing con­fused, oth­ers scared and fear­ful . “Seal the ex­it! SEAL IT!” Mrs. Cat­ter­mole looked over her shoul­der .
Reg Cat­ter­mole screamed, “My wife! Who was that with my wife? What’s going on?” Har­ry saw Yax­ley’s head turn, saw an inkling of truth dawn on that brutish face . They spun for a few sec­onds be­fore shoot­ing up out of a toi­let in­to a cu­bi­cle .
Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows CHAPTER FOURTEEN THE THIREF Har­ry opened his eyes and was daz­zled by gold and green; he knew that he was ly­ing on what seemed to be leaves and twigs . He blinked and re­al­ized that the gaudy glare was sun­light stream­ing through a canopy of leaves far above him . Then an ob­ject twitched
Har­ry’s heart leapt at the thought of sneak­ing through the trees to Ha­grid’s hut . The trees looked younger, they were more wide­ly spaced, the ground clear­er . He met Hermione, al­so on her hands and knees, at Ron’s head .
Har­ry sped to the place where Hermione had land­ed, seized the tiny bead-ed bag, and thrust his hand in­side it . He felt the leather spines of books, wool­ly sleeves of jumpers, heels of shoes – “Quick­ly!” He grabbed his wand from the ground and pointed it in­to the depths of the mag­ical bag . A small brown bot­tle zoomed out of the bag; 
Har­ry poured three drops of the po­tion on­to the bleed­ing wound . The wound now looked sev­er­al days old; new skin stretched over what had just been open flesh . “I daren’t try in case I do them wrong and cause more dam­age,” said Hermione .
Har­ry, I think he can. I – I forced him to let go with a Re­vul­sion Jinx, but I’d al­ready tak­en him in­side the Fi­delius Charm’s pro­tec­tion . It was a se­ri­ous blow. If Yax­ley could now get inside the house, there was no way that they could re­turn . Even now, he could be bring­ing oth­
Ron whis­pered as he felt his in­jured arm . “Where are you going­ing?” Ron asked Har­ry .
Har­ry and Ron saw lit­tle dis­turbances in the sur­rounding air . It was as if Hermione had cast a heat haze up­on their clear­ing . The tent emerged in a lumpy mass of can­vas, ropes, and poles .
“So Ron’s dad said I could bor­row it. Erec­to!” she added, point­ing her wand at the mis­shapen can­vas . “Cave In­im­icum,” Hermione fin­ished with a sky­ward flour­ish .
Har­ry and Hermione half car­ried, half dragged Ron through the tent . He shoved aside an old arm­chair and low­ered Ron care­ful­ly on­to the low­er berth of a bunk bed .
“Blimey, I hope they es­caped,” said Ron, lean­ing back on his pil­lows . “I didn’t get the feel­ing Reg Cat­ter­mole was all that quick-wit­ted, though, the way ev­ery­one was talk­ing to me when I was him. God, I Hope they made it.” Har­ry looked over at Hermione and the ques­tion he had been about to ask 
a chick­en’s egg glint­ed dul­ly in the dif­fused light shin­ing through the tent’s can­vas roof . “There’sn’t any chance some­one’s de­stroyed it since Kreach­er had it?” asked Ron hope­ful­fully. “I think so,” said Hermione, tak­ing it back from him .
Ron and Hermione were no more suc­cess­ful at open­ing the lock­et than he had been . Af­ter a mo­ment or two, Har­ry thought he knew what Ron meant . “Keep it safe till we work out how to de­stroy it.” Harry replied .
Ron at­tempt­ed to sit up and turn a nasty shade of green . The Sneako­scope Hermione had giv­en Har­ry for his birth­day set care­ful­ly up­on its point all day .
Ron had pushed his por­tion away, look­ing queasy; Har­ry had on­ly per­se­vered so as to not hurt Hermione’s feel­ings . The sur­rounding si­lence was bro­ken by odd rustlings and what sound­ed like crackings of twigs tin­gled with un­ease . It was as though he had been hurtling to­ward this point for weeks, months,
Hor­crux lay against the bare flesh of his chest . From time to time Har­ry thought, or per­haps imag­ined, that he could feel the tiny heart­beat tick­ing ir­reg­ular­ly along­side his own . Ron and Hermione, now talking soft­ly be­hind him in the tent, could walk away if they want­ed to: He could not .
Har­ry was afraid that he was mak­ing it hap­pen by hav­ing these thoughts, and tried to di­rect them in­to an­oth­er chan­nel . He thought of poor Kreach­er, who had ex­pect­ed them home and had re­ceived Yax­ley in­stead . Would the elf keep silent or would he tell the Death Eater ev­ery­thing he knew
Har­ry’s voice was high, clear, and cold, his wand held in front of him by a long- fin­gered white hand . The man at whom he was point­ing was sus­pend­ed up­side down in midair, though there were no ropes holding him . “I have it not, I have it no more! It was, many years ago, stolen from me!” .
Har­ry saw the de­light up­on his hand­some face, then the in­trud­er shot a Stun­ning Spell from his wand and jumped neat­ly back­ward out of the win­dow with a crow of laugh­ter . “Who was the thief, Gre­gorovitch?” said the high cold voice .
“Must’ve dozed off, sor­ry.” “I know it was your scar! I can tell by the look on your face! You were looking­ing in­to Vol –“ “Don’t say his name!” came Ron’s an­gry voice from the depths of the tent . “I didn’t mean it to hap­pen!” Har­ry said .
Ron’s still- pale face was pok­ing out from the low­er bunk; Har­ry climbed in­to the one above him, lay down, and looked up at the dark can­vas ceil­ing . He screwed up his eyes in the ef­fort to re­mem­ber ev­ery de­tail . “How’s Gre­gorovitch sup­posed to make him a new wand if he’s
The theft had hap­pened many years ago, ac­cord­ing to Gre­gorovitch . The nois­es of the sur­round­ing woods were muf­fled in­side the tent; all Har­ry could hear was Ron’s breath­ing .
He had been sure Volde­mort had been looking for a way around the problem of the twin cores, sure that he sought a so­lu­tion from the old wand­mak­er . But he had killed him, ap­par­ent­ly with­out ask­ing him a sin­gle ques­tion . Why, with the Min­istry of Mag­ic and the Wiz­ard­ing world at his feet, was
Har­ry left the tent to search the woods around them for the old­est, most gnarled, and re­silient-looking­ing tree he could find . There in its shad­ows he buried Mad- Eye Moody's eye and marked the spot by goug­ing a small cross in the bark with his wand . Then Ron agreed, wit the sole pro­vi­so that their next move took them with­in reach of
Har­ry's ex­pres­sions of con­ster­na­tion and dis­ap­point­ment made him feel ashamed . It had been a night­marish ex­pe­ri­ence, see­ing the de­men­tors glid­ing out of the must in the dis­tance and re­al­iz­ing . “So we still haven't got any food.” “Shut up, Ron,” snapped Hermi
Ron kicked a chair leg. “What?” he snarled at Hermione . “I'm starv­ing! All I've had since I bled half to death is a cou­ple of toad­stools!” she said .
Gin­ny told me there were times when she couldn't re­mem­ber any­thing . “Well, maybe we should not to wear it. We can just keep it in the tent,” said Hermione . "If we lose it, if it gets stolen—” she said .
Hermione bore up rea­son­ably well on those nights when they man­aged to scav­enge noth­ing but berries or stale bis­cuits, her tem­per per­haps a little short­er than usu­al and her si­lences dour . When­ev­er lack of food co­in­cid­ed with Ron's turn to wear the Hor­crux, he be­cam
Har­ry and Hermione spent fruit­less hours trying­ing to de­cide where they might find the oth­er Hor­crux­es . They kept recit­ing, in a sort of drea­ry litany, those lo­ca­tions they knew that Volde­mort had lived or vis­it­ed to him . The or­phan­age where he had been born and raised: Hog­warts, Bor­g
Dum­ble­dore made five of his Hor­crux­es be­fore he went in­to ex­ile . “I can't see him hid­ing any­thing at Bor­gin and Burkes,” said Har­ry . He said it again sim­ply to break the nasty si­lence .
“YOU- KNOW- WHO, then!” Har­ry shouted, goad­ing past en­durance . “This is You- Know- Who we're talking about, right? Not you?” in­quired Ron . He was tug­ging at the chain of the Hor­crux around his neck .
Hermione stole in­to a li­brary and dis­cov­ered from their records that the place had been de­molished many years be­fore . They vis­it­ed its site and found a tow­er block of offices . “He wouldn’t have hid­den a Hor­crux here,” Har­ry said .
Ev­ery morn­ing they made sure that they had re­moved all clues to their pres­ence . They set off to find an­oth­er lone­ly and se­clud­ed spot, trav­el­ing by Ap­pari­tion to more woods, to the shad­owy crevices of cliffs, and once a shel­tered and peb­bly cove . Har­
Har­ry knew that Ron was hop­ing to bear news of his fam­ily or the rest of the Or­der of the Phoenix . But af­ter all, he could on­ly see what Volde­mort was thinking­ing at the time, not tune in to what­ev­er took his fan­cy .
Har­ry be­gan to sus­pect that Ron and Hermione were hav­ing con­ver­sa­tions with­out, and about him . Sev­er­al times they stopped talk­ing abrupt­ly when Harry en­tered the tent, and twice he came ac­ci­den­tal­ly up­on them, hud­dled a lit­tle dis­tance away, heads to­geth­
Au­tumn rolled over the coun­try­side as they moved through it . They were pitch­ing the tent on mulches of fall­en leaves . Wind and rain added to their trou­bles . The fact that Hermione was getting bet­ter at iden­ti­fy­ing ed­ible fun­gi could not al­to­geth­er com­pen­sate .
Hermione jumped up and bits of roast pike slid off her tin plate on­to the floor . “You can do the cook­ing tomor­row, Ron, you can find the in­gre­di­ents and try and charm them in­to some­thing worth eat­ing,” said Ron .
Heavy scuff­ing and scrap­ing nois­es, plus the sound of dis­lodged stones and twigs, told them that sev­er­al peo­ple were clam­ber­ing down the steep, wood­ed slope . The en­chant­ments they had cast around them­selves ought to be suf­fi­cient, in the near to to­tal dark­ness, to shield them from the no­tice
Har­ry pressed the Ex­tendable ear deep­er in­to his own . It was a rough and un­melo­di­ous tongue, a string of rat­tling, gut­tural nois­es . There seemed to be two speak­ers, one with a slight­ly low­er, slow­er voice than the oth­er .
Har­ry sud­den­ly knew who he was: Tonks’s fa­ther . Heard Death Eaters were in the area last week and de­cid­ed I’d better run for it .
“I’ve got to say, Dirk, I’m sur­prised to run in­to you. Pleased, but surprised. Word was that you’d been caught.” “I was,” said Dirk . There was an­oth­er pause in which the fire crack­led . “You had a false im­pres­sion,” said the deep­er- voiced gob­lin .
“I rec­og­nize no Wiz­ard­ing mas­ter.” He added some­thing un­der his breath in Gob­blede­gook, and Gor­nuk laughed . There was a short pause. “I don’t get it,” said Dean .
Har­ry glanced to Hermione and Ron, both of whom were clutch­ing the Ex­tendable Ears as tight­ly as life­lines . Snape caught them as they were trying to smug­gle it down the stair­case . “Ah, God bless ‘em,” said Ted .
“Oh yes. It is a copy—en ex­cel­lent copy, it is true—but it was Wiz­ard- made . The orig­inal was forged cen­turies ago by gob­lins . “I see,” said Ted. “And I take it you didn’t bother telling the Death Eaters this/’ “I saw no rea­son to trou­ble them with the in­for­ma­tion” .
“You be­lieve that sto­ry, then, do you, Ted?” asked Dirk . “You’re not going to sit there and tell me you think Pot­ter had any­thing to do with it?” mut­tered Dirk. “And I reck­on he’s the re­al thing—the Cho­sen One”
“It’s not so lu­natic these days,” said Ted . “You want to give it a look, Xeno is print­ing all the stuff the Prophet’s ig­nor­ing, not a sin­gle men­tion of Crum­ple- Horned Snorkacks in the last is­sue . How long they’ll let him get with it, mind, I don’t know .
Har­ry, Ron, and Hermione reeled in the Ex­tend­able Ears . She lunged for the tiny bead­ed bag, this time sink­ing her arm in it right up to the armpit . Slow­ly the edge of an or­nate pic­ture frame came in­to sight .
Phineas Nigel­lus slid in­to his por­trait, caus­ing him to bump in to the frame and shriek with pain . “I’m very sor­ry, Pro­fes­sor Black,” said Hermione .
Phineas Nigel­lus raised su­per­cil­ious eye­brows . “Your tone displeas­es me! The girl and her friends were fool­hardi­ly in the ex­treme.” “They weren’t thiev­ing,” said Har­ry .
“I grow weary of con­tradic­tion,” said Phineas Nigel­lus. “Per­haps it is time for me to re­turn to the head­mas­ter’s of­fice.?” Still blind­fold­ed, he be­gan grop­ing the side of his frame . “Can’t you bring us Dum­ble­dore?” Har­ry said .
Phineas Nigel­lus turned his face in the di­rec­tion of Har­ry’s voice . “Pro­fes­sor Dum­ble­dore can­not come here with me, and af­ter the treat­ment I have re­ceived at your hands, I can as­sure you that I will not be mak­ing a re-turn vis­it!” Hermione said .
Hermione was squash­ing Phineas Nigel­lus’s back in­to the bead­ed bag . When she had fas­tened the clasp she threw the bag aside and raised a shin­ing face to Har­ry .
Har­ry felt that the an­swer was dan­gling in­vis­ibly in the air above them . “Think!” whis­pered Hermione. “No­body ev­er goes in there.” “But Snape knows how to get in, wouldn’t that be a bit risky?” she said. “Yeah, you’re right!” said Harry .
Ron thought that Ron had left the tent, then re­al­ized that Ron was ly­ing in the shad­ow of a bunk . “You two car­ry on. Don’t let me spoil your fun.” Har­ry looked to Hermione for help, but she shook her head, ap­par­ent­ly as non­plussed as he was. “Well, you’ve ob­vi­ous­ly got a prob­le
Dread doused Har­ry’s ju­bi­la­tion; Ron was say­ing ex­act­ly what he had sus­pect­ed and feared him to be think­ing . “I just hoped, you know, with my arm man­gled and noth­ing to eat and freez­ing my backside off ev­ery night,” Ron said .
“I’ve been straight with you from the start. I told you ev­ery­thing Dumble­dore told me. And we’re about as near getting rid of it as we are to find­ing the rest of them,” Hermione said . “You wouldn’t be talking­ing like this if you hadn’t been wearing­ing it all day.” “D’you think I haven’t no­ticed the two of you whis­per­ing
The sword of Gryffind­or was hid­den they knew not where, and their were three teenagers in a tent whose on­ly achieve­ment was not, yet, to be dead . “Yeah, maybe I will!” shout­ed Ron, and took sev­er­al steps to­ward Har­ry .
“I don’t think it means any­thing new has hap­pened,” said Hermione . “Oh, you’re sure, are you? Right then, well, I won’t bother my­self about them.” Har­ry bel­lowed. “And mine could be going­ing the same way!” yelled Ron.
Har­ry stood still and silent, lis­ten­ing to her sob­bing and calling­ing Ron’s name amongst the trees . He stooped, picked up the Hor­crux, and placed it around his own neck . Then he climbed on­to his own bed and stared up at the dark can­vas roof .
Har­ry jumped down from his own bed, keep­ing his eyes avert­ed from Ron's . Then he hoped child­ish­ly, that it had been a dream, that Ron was still there and had nev­er left . But by turning his head on his pil­low he could see Ron’s de­serted bunk .
Har­ry and Hermione ate break­fast in si­lence . He saw her look up ea­ger­ly, and saw noth­ing but rain- swept woods . Ron washed and dressed as though rep­eti­tion would dull shock of it .
Fi­nal hav­ing en­tire­ly repacked the bag three times, Hermione seemed un­able to find any more rea­sons to de­lay . She and Har­ry gasped hands and Dis­ap­pa­rat­ed, reap­pear­ing on a windswept heather- cov­ered hill­side . He watched her, sup­pos­ing that he ought to go and com­fort her
Ron did not ap­pear on the map and af­ter a while Har­ry found him tak­ing it out sim­ply to stare at Gin­ny's name in the girl's dor­mi­to­ry . Hermione seemed to know that it was no use forc­ing the is­sue . They did not dis­cuss Ron at all over the next few days .
Har­ry could not re­mem­ber Dum­ble­dore ev­er men­tion­ing a place in which he might hide some­thing . There were mo­ments when he did not know whether he was an­gri­er with Ron or with Dumble­denore. They had dis­cov­ered one Hor­crux, but they had no means of de­stroy­ing it .
Phineas Nigel­lus was com­pa­ny, al­beit of a snide and taunt­ing kind . He ven­er­at­ed Snape, the first Slytherin head­mas­ter since he him­self had con­trolled the school . They had to be care­ful not to crit­icize or ask im­per­ti­nent ques­tions about Snape .
Gin­ny had been banned from go­ing in­to Hogsmeade . Snape had re­in­stat­ed Um­bridge's old de­cree for­bid­ding gath­erings of three or more stu­dents or any un­of­fi­cial stu­dent so­ci­eties . From all of these things, Har­ry de­duced that Gin-ny, and prob­ably Neville and Lu
Har­ry ex­pe­ri­enced a split sec­ond of mad­ness when he imag­ined sim­ply go­ing back to school to join the desta­bi­liza­tion of Snape’s regime: Be­ing fed and hav­ing a soft bad, and oth­er peo­ple be­ing in charge, seemed the most won­derful prospect in the world at this mo­ment . In­
Hermione shoved him back in­side the bag ev­ery time he did this . Phineas Nigel­lus in­vari­ably re­fused to reap­pear for sev­er­al days .
Hermione had been to a su­per­mar­ket un­der the In­vis­ibil­ity Cloak . Har­ry thought she might be more per­suad­able than usu­al on a stom­ach full of spaghet­ti Bolog­nese and tinned pears . He had al­so had the fore­sight to sug­gest that they take a few hours’ break
Har­ry cleared his throat when he asked Pro­fes­sor McG­ona­gall if he could go in­to Hogsmeade . He felt ex­act­ly as he had done on the oc­ca­sion, sev­er­al years pre­vi­ous­ly . She leaned for­ward and held out The Tales of Bee­dle the Bard .
Har­ry looked clos­er. “Isn’t it the same sym­bol Lu­na’s dad was wearing­ing round his neck?” “Well, that’s what I thought too!” “Then it’s Grindel­wald’s mark.” He re­count­ed the sto­ry that Vik­tor Krum had told him at the wed­ding .
“Yeah, it is weird,” said Har­ry . “You’d think Scrim­geour would have rec­og­nized it. He was Min­is­ter, he ought to have been ex­pert on Dark stuff.” “Hermione?” “Hmm?” “I’ve been thinking­ing. I – I want to go to Go­dric’s Hol­low.” She looked up at him, but her eyes were un­fo­cused
Har­ry half ex­pect­ed her to an­nounce that she was off to the li­brary . “There’s a bit about the vil­lage in A His­to­ry of Mag­ic, wait . .
vil­lages of Tin­worsh in Corn­wall, Up­per Fla­gley in York­shire, and Ot­tery St. Catch­pole on the south coast of Eng­land were no­table homes to knots of Wiz­ard­ing fam­ilies . Most cel­ebrat­ed of these half- mag­ical dwelling places is, per­haps, Go­dric’s Hol­low, the West Coun­try
Har­ry didn’t want to ad­mit that he had not been thinking about the sword at all when he sug­gest­ed they go to Go­dric’s Hol­low . For him, the lore of the vil­lage lay in his par­ents’ graves, the house where he nar­row­ly es­caped death, and in the per­son of Bathil­da Bagshot .
“Bathil­da Bagshot,” mur­mured Hermione . “Well, I sup­pose –“ She gasped so dra­mat­ically that Har­ry’s in­sides turned over; he drew his wand, half ex­pect­ing to see a hand forc­ing its way through the en­trance flap .
Har­ry could tell that the prospect of hav­ing a plan had lifted her mood as much as his . For the first time since he had dis­cov­ered that the sword in Gringotts was a fake, he felt ex­cit­ed .
Volde­mort would have grown up and spent ev­ery school hol­iday . It would have been his moth­er who had made his sev­en­teenth birth­day cake . Har­ry qui­et­ly ex­tract­ed his ruck­sack from Hermione’s bag . For the first time in months, he pe­rused the old pic­tures of his par­ents .
Volde­mort would ex­pect Har­ry to re­turn to the scene of his par­ents’ deaths . It was there­fore a full week lat­er – once they had sur­rep­ti­tious­ly ob­tained hairs from in­no­cent Mug­gles who were Christ­mas shop­ping, and had prac­ticed Ap­pa­rat­ing and Dis­ap
Har­ry opened his eyes in a snowy lane un­der a dark blue sky . They stood on ei­ther side of the nar­row road, Christ­mas dec­ora­tions twin­kling in their win­dows . “All this snow!” Hermione whis­pered be­neath the cloak .
Har­ry gazed at the front doors, their snow- bur­dened roofs, and their front porch­es, won­der­ing whether he re­mem­bered any of them . The lit­tle lane along which they were walk­ing curved to the left and the heart of the vil­lage, a small square, was re-vealed to them. Strung all around with col­ored lights, there was what looked like a war memo
Har­ry felt a thrill of some­thing that was be­yond ex­cite­ment, more like fear . Now that he was so near, he won­dered whether he wanted­ed to see af­ter all .
Har­ry had looked his fill, and they turned again to­ward the church . He glanced over his shoul­der; the stat­ue had turned back in­to the war memo­ri­al . There was a kiss­ing gate at the en­trance to the grave­yard . On ei­ther side of the slip­pery path, the snow lay deep and un­touched .
Kendra Dum­ble­dore and Her Daugh­ter Ar­iana had a quo­ta­tion: Where your trea­sure is, there will your heart be al­so . The Dumble­denore fam­ily had in­deed lived here, and part of it had died here.
Har­ry imag­ined com­ing here with Dum­ble­dore, of what a bond that would have meant to him . But the fact that their fam­ilies lay side by side in the same grave­yard had been an unim­por­tant co­in­ci­dence, ir­rel­evant, per­haps, to the job he wanted­ed Harry to do . Sure­ly Dum
Hermione lit her wand and point­ed it at the name on the head­stone . The grave was ex­treme­ly old, weath­ered so that Har­ry could hard­ly make out the name . “I’m go­ing to keep look­ing for my par­ents, all right?” he told her, a slight edge to his voice, and he set off again .
Har­ry felt a lit­tle lurch of ap­pre­hen­sion and an­tic­ipa­tion . Some­body in­side the church had just turned off the lights . Then Hermione’s voice came out of the black­ness for the third time, sharp and clear from a few yards away .
Har­ry read the words slow­ly, as though he would have on­ly one chance to take in their mean­ing . “It doesn’t mean de­feat­ing death in the way the Death Eaters mean it,” said Hermione, her voice gen­tle .
Har­ry lay be­neath snow and stone, in­dif­fer­ent, un­know­ing . And tears came be­fore he could stop them, boil­ing hot then in­stant­ly freez­ing on his face . He let them fall, his lips pressed hard to­geth­er, look­ing down at the thick snow hid­ing from his eyes the place where the last of Lily and James lay .
Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows CHAPTER SEVENTEEN BATHIL­DA’S SE­CRET . He put his arm around Hermione’s shoul­ders, and she put hers around his waist . They turned in si­lence and walked away through the snow .
A His­to­ry of Mag­ic was sup­posed to be haunt­ed . But then he heard a rus­tle and saw a little . Har­ry, I'm sure there's some­one over there .
Ghosts could not move snow in the bush to which Hermione had point­ed . “It's a cat,” said Har­ry, af­ter a sec­ond or two, “or a bird. If it was a Death Eater we'd be dead by now. But let's get out of here, and we can put the Cloak back on.” They glanced back re­peat­ly as they made their way out of the grave­yard
Har­ry could make out the point where the cot­tages end­ed and the lane turned in­to open coun­try again . They walked as quick­ly as they dared, past more win­dows sparkling with mul­ti­col­ored lights, the out­lines of Christ­mas trees dark through the cur­tains . “How are we going­ing to find Bathil­da's house?” asked Hermione .
Ha­grid had tak­en Har­ry from the rub­ble that lay scat­tered amongst the waist-high grass . Most of the cot­tage was still stand­ing, though en­tire­ly cov­ered in the dark ivy and snow, but the right side of the top floor had been blown apart . He and Hermione stood at the gate, gaz­ing to the end of this row of hous­es .
"Maybe it's like the in­juries from Dark Mag­ic and you can't re­pair the dam­age?" Har­ry slipped a hand from be­neath the Cloak and grasped the snowy and thick­ly rust­ed gate . A sign had risen out of the ground in front of them, up thor­ough the tan­gles of net­tles and weeds .
Lily and James Pot­ter lost their lives on this night of 31 Oc­to­ber 1981 . Their son, Har­ry, re­mains the on­ly wiz­ard ev­er to have sur­vived the Killing Curse . And all around these neat­ly let­tered words, scrib­bles had been added by oth­er witch­es .
Har­ry, wher­ev­er you are . The most re­cent of these, shin­ing bright­ly over six­teen years' worth of mag­ical graf­fi­ti, all said sim­ilar things . "They shouldn't have writ­ten on the sign!” said Hermione, in­dig­nant .
Har­ry was waiting to see whether she would turn in­to any of the cot­tages she was passing . At last she came to a halt a few yards from them and sim­ply stood there in the mid­dle of the frozen road, fac­ing them . There was next to no chance that this wom­an was a Mug­gle: She was standing there gaz­ing at a house that ought to have been com­plete­ly in­vis­
Nev­er­the­less, Har­ry had the strangest feel­ing that she knew that they were there, and al­so who they were . Just as he had reached this un­easy con­clu­sion, she raised a gloved hand and beck­oned . Hermione moved clos­er to him un­der the Cloak, her arm pressed against his. “How does she know?” He shook his head .
Har­ry and Hermione looked at each oth­er . They stepped to­ward the wom­an and turned and hobbled off back the way they had been .
Har­ry wrin­kled his nose as they si­dled past her and pulled off the Cloak . Now that he was be­side her, he re­al­ized how tiny she was; bowed down with age, she came bare­ly lev­el with his chest . Her eyes were thick with cataracts and sunken in­to folds of trans­parent .
Bathil­da? Har­ry be­came aware of the lock­et against his skin . The thing in­side it that some­times ticked or beat had wo­ken; he could feel it puls­ing through the cold gold .
Bathil­da was tot­ter­ing around the place light­ing can­dles, but it was still very dark, not to men­tion ex­treme­ly dirty . Thick dust crunched be­neath their feet, and Har­ry's nose detect­ed .
Har­ry lit the can­dles clum­si­ly by hand, her trail­ing lace cuff in catch­ing fire . She stood watch­ing him as he fin­ished light­ing the stubs that stood on saucers around the room, perched pre­car­ious­ly on stacks of books and on side ta­bles crammed with cracked and moldy cups .
Bathil­da saw a few tiny move­ments from the pic­tures . It was the gold­en-haired, merry- faced thief who had perched on Gre­gorovitch's win­dowsill, smil­ing lazi­ly up at Har­ry out of the sil­ver frame .
Har­ry ad­vanced with the pic­ture in his hands as flames burst in­to life in the fire­place . “Who is this per­son?” Bathil­da asked her, pushing it for­ward . She peered at it solemn­ly, then up at Harry .
Ri­ta Skeeter un­locked Bathil­da's mem­ories? “Who is this man?” he re­peat­ed loud­ly . “Harry, what area you do­ing?” asked Hermione .
Bathil­da shook her head with sur­pris­ing vig­or, once more point­ing first at Har­ry, then to her­self . “Oh, right... Hermione, I think she wants me to go up­stairs with her, alone.” “Why?” asked her, and her voice rang out sharp and clear in the can­dlelit room .
Har­ry glanced back at Hermione with a re­as­sur­ing smile, but was not sure she had seen it . She stood hug­ging her­self in the midst of the can­dlelit squalor, looking to­ward the book­case . He slipped the sil­ver-framed pho­to­graph of the un­known thief in­side his jack­et .
Har­ry had just made out a cham­ber pot pro­trud­ing from un­der the bed be­fore Bathil­da closed the door and even that was swal­lowed by the dark­ness . “You are Pot­ter?” she whis­pered .
Har­ry felt the Hor­crux beat­ing fast, faster than his own heart; It was an un­pleas­ant, ag­itat­ing sen­sa­tion . “Have you got any­thing for me?” he asked, but she seemed dis­tract­ed by his lit wand-tip . Then she closed her eyes and sev­er­al things hap­pened at once .
Har­ry raised his wand and saw the out­line of a clut­tered dress­ing ta­ble be­neath the cur­tained win­dow . This time she did not lead him. “What is it?” he asked . “There,” she said, point­ing at the shape­less mass . He saw it out of the cor­ner of his .
pan­ic made him turn and hor­ror par­alyzed him as he saw the old body col­laps­ing and the great snake pour­ing from the place where her neck had been . The force of the bite to his fore­arm sent the wand spin­ning up to­ward the ceil­ing; its light swung dizzy­ing­ly around the room .
He felt it slide over him, pow­er­ful, mus­cu­lar -- “No!” he gasped, pinned to the floor . He needed his hands to force the snake from him as it coiled it­self around his tor­so, squeez­ing the air from him, pressing the Hor­crux hard in­to his chest, a cir­cle of ice that throbbed with life, inch­es from his own fran
A met­al heart was bang­ing out­side his chest, and now he was fly­ing with tri­umph in his heart . He scram­bled up and saw the snake out­lined against the land­ing light . Hermione dived aside with a shriek; her de­flect­ed curse hit the cur­tained win­dow .
Har­ry raised his wand, but as he did so, his scar seared more painful­ly, more pow­er­ful­ly than it had done in years . It smashed shelves from the wall, and splin­tered chi­na flew ev­ery­where .
The snake lunged as he took a run­ning leap, drag­ging Hermione with him . He screamed, “Con­fringo!” and her spell flew around the room . Glass cut his cheek as, pulling her with him, he leapt from bed to bro­ken dress­ing ta­ble and then straight out of the smashed win­dow .
if he had no body, why did his head hurt so bad­ly; how cold he felt so un­bear­ably, didn't he feel . And his scream was Har­ry's pain... that it could hap­pen here, where it had happened be­fore... here, with­in sight of that house where it was to die ... to die... the pain was so ter­ri­ble ... ripped from his body ... But
The night wet and windy, two chil­dren dressed as pump­kins wad­dling across the square and the shop win­dows cov­ered in pa­per spi­ders . And he was glid­ing along, that sense of pur­pose and pow­er and right­ness in him that he al­ways knew on these oc­ca­sions ... Not anger ... that was for weak­er souls than he
Fi­delius Charm bro­ken, though they did not know it yet ... And now his des­ti­na­tion was in sight at last . He saw them quite clear­ly in their lit­tle sit­ting room, the tall black- haired man in his glass­es, mak­ing puffs of col­ored smoke erupt from his wand .
the fa­ther scooped up the son and hand­ed him to the moth­er . He threw his wand down up­on the so­fa and stretched, yawn­ing . The gate creaked a lit­tle as he pushed it open, but he did not hear .
James Pot­ter climbed the steps, lis­ten­ing with faint amuse­ment to her at­tempts to bar­ri­cade her­self in ... She had no wand up­on her ei­ther ... How stupid they were, and how trust­ing, think­ing that their safe­ty lay in friends, that weapons could be dis­card­ed even . He laughed be­fore cast­ing the curse ... “Ava
He forced the door open, cast aside the chair and box­es hasti­ly piled against it with one lazy wave of his wand . At the sight of him, she dropped her son in­to the crib be­hind her and threw her arms wide, as if this would help . “Not Harry, not Har­ry, please no, take me, kill me in­stead --” “Stand aside, you sil­ly girl... stand aside, now.” “
He looked up in­to the in­trud­er's face with a kind of bright in­ter­est, per­haps think­ing that it was his fa­ther who hid be­neath the cloak, mak­ing more pret­ty lights, and his moth­er would pop up any mo­ment, laugh­ing . It had seen that he was not James. He did not like it cry­ing, he had nev
The snake rus­tled on the filthy, clut­tered floor, and he had killed the boy . But now he stood at the bro­ken win­dow of Bathil­da's house, im­mersed in mem­ories of his great­est loss . “Harry, it's all right, you're all right!” He stooped .
Hermione whis­pered. “Do you feel all right?” “Yes,” he lied. He was in the tent, ly­ing on one of the low­er bunks be­neath a heap of blan­kets . He could tell that it was al­most dawn by the still­ness and qual­ity of the cold, flat light be­yond the can­vas ceil­ing .
“You've been ill,” Hermione fin­ished. “Quite ill.” “How long ago did we leave?” “Hours ago. It's near­ly morn­ing.” “And I've be... what, un­con­scious?” “Not ex­act­ly,” said Har­ry un­com­fort­ably . “I couldn't get the Hor­crux off you,” she said.
“It was stuck, stuck to your chest. You've got a mark; I'm sorry, I had to use a Sev­er­ing Charm to get it away. The snake hit you too, but I've cleaned the wound and put some dit­tany on it ...” He pulled the sweaty T-shirt he was wearing away from him­self and looked down . There was a scarlet oval over his heart where the lock­et had burned him .
Bathil­da must've been dead a while. The snake was ... was in­side her. You- Know- Who put it there in Go­dric's Hol­low, to wait. You were right. He knew I'd go back.” “Yeah, well... we got that wrong, didn't we?” “No.” “She was the snake ... or the snake was her ... all along.” “W- what?” He closed his eyes.
Hermione said there would be mag­ic we'd nev­er imag­ined . Har­ry said she didn't want to talk in front of you, be­cause it was Parsel­tongue . He re­mem­bered the snake com­ing out of Bathil­da's neck .
The hol­ly and phoenix wand was near­ly sev­ered in two pieces . One frag­ile strand of phoeix feath­er kept both pieces hang­ing to­geth­er .
Har­ry took it in­to his hands as though it was a liv­ing thing . He couldn't think prop­er­ly: Ev­ery­thing was blur of pan­ic and fear . The dan­gling half of the wand re­sealed it­self, then went out . “Ex­pel­liar­mus!” The fee­ble at­tempt at mag­ic was too much .
Hermione whis­pered so qui­et­ly he could hard­ly hear her . “I'm so, so sorry. I think it was me. As we were leav­ing, you know, the snake was com­ing for us, and so I cast a Blast­ing Curse, and it re­bound­ed ev­ery­where,” said Har­ry me­chan­ically .
Har­ry thought of Ol­li­van­der, kid­napped and held hostage by Volde­mort; of Gre­gorovitch, who was dead . How was he sup­posed to find him­self a new wand? “Well, I'll just bor­row yours for now, then. While I keep watch.” Her face glazed with tears, Hermione hand­ed over her .
Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows CHAPTER EIGHTTEEN THE LIFE AND LIES OF AL­BUS DUM­BLE­DORE The sun was com­ing up . Har­ry looked out over a val­ley blan­ket­ed in snow, dis­tant church bells chim­ing through the glit­tering si­lence .
nev­er, un­til this mo­ment, had felt him­self to be fa­tal­ly weak­ened, vul­nerable, and naked, as though the best part of his mag­ical pow­er had been torn from him . He knew ex­act­ly what Hermione would say if he ex­pressed any of this: The wand is on­ly as good as the wiz­ard . She had not felt the 
Dum­ble­dore had left them to grope in the dark­ness, to wres­tle with un­known and un­dreamed- of ter­rors . And now, Har­ry had no wand . It would sure­ly be easy for Volde­mort to find out who he was .
Al­bus Dum­ble­dore read The Life and Lies of Bathil­da . “Where --- how --- ?” Hermione read the few lines of spiky, acid- green writ­ing aloud . ‘Dear Bal­ly, Thanks for your help. Here’s a copy of the book, hope you like it. You said ev­ery­thing, even if you don’t re­mem­ber it
Al­bus Dum­ble­dore, short­ly af­ter his moth­er’s death, With his friend Gellert Grindel­wald . Har­ry looked side­ways at Hermione, who was still con­tem­plat­ing the name as though she could not be­lieve her eyes . Slowly she looked up at him. “Grindel–wald!” Ig­nor­ing re­main­der of the pho­
Dum­ble­dore in­tend­ed, next, to take a Grand Tour with El­phias “Dog­breath” Doge, the dim- wit­ted but de­voted side­kick he had picked up at school . The two young men were staying at the Leaky Caul­dron in Lon­don, pre­par­ing to de­part for Greece the fol­low­ing .
Ar­iana Dumble­dore's ex­is­tence con­tin­ued to be known on­ly to those few out­siders who, like “Dog­breath” Doge, could be count­ed up­on to be­lieve in the sto­ry of her “ill health” . Enid Smeek, whose fam­ily lived on the out­skirts of Go­dric’s
Bathil­da Bagshot was the cel­ebrat­ed mag­ical his­to­ri­an who has lived in Go­dric’s Hol­low for many years . He sent an owl to Al­bus at Hog­warts, hav­ing been fa­vor­ably im­pressed by his pa­per on trans- species trans­for­ma­tion in Trans­fig­ura­tion To­day . At the time of
Bathil­da al­so par­rots the fam­ily line on Ar­iana, calling­ing her “frail” and “del­icate” on one sub­ject, how­ev­er, for she knows the full sto­ry of the best- kept se­cret of Al­bus Dum­ble­dore’s life . Now re­vealed for the first time, it calls in­to ques­tion ev
Grindel­wald nev­er ex­tend­ed his cam­paign of ter­ror to Britain . How­ev­er, the de­tails of his rise to pow­er are not wide­ly known here . At six­teen, even Durm­strang felt it could no longer turn a blind eye .
Bathil­da shows me a let­ter, kept by her that Al­bus Dumble­dore sent Gellert Grindel­wald in the dead of night . The idea would have struck him and he had to let him know im­me­di­ate­ly!” And what ideas they were .
Al­bus As­ton­ished and ap­palled as his many ad­mir­ers will be, this let­ter con­sti­tutes the Statute of Se­cre­cy and es­tab­lish­ing Wiz­ard rule over Mug­gles . How hol­low those speech­es pro­mot­ing Muggle rights seem in light of this damning new ev­idence! How de­spi­
Dumble­dore and Grindel­wald part­ed, nev­er to see each oth­er again un­til they met for their leg­endary du­el (for more, see chap­ter 22). What caused this abrupt rup­ture? Had he said he wanted no more part in his plans? Alas, no.
Aber­forth blamed Al­bus, you know, as peo­ple will un­der these dread­ful cir­cum­stances . It would have de­stroyed Kendra to see her sons fight­ing like that, across her daugh­ter’s body . A shame Gellert could not have stayed for the fu­ner­al .
Ar­iana Dum­ble­dore was the first per­son to die “for the greater good” . Har­ry looked up at the book, looking a lit­tle alarmed by his ex­pres­sion . She closed it with­out look­ing at it, as though hid­ing some­thing in­de­cent .
Ron had trust­ed Dum­ble­dore, be­lieved him the em­bodiment of good­ness and wis­dom . She seemed to have heard his thoughts . “You did read that let­ter to Grindel­wald, didn't you?” “Yes, I --- I did.” “I think that's the worst bit. I know Bathil­da thought it was all just talk, but 'For the Greater Good' be­cam
Dum­ble­dore's ideas helped Grindel­wald rise to pow­er . But even Ri­ta can't pre­tend that they knew each oth­er for more than a few months . He did not want to let his anger spill out at her, but it was hard to keep his voice steady .
“What­ev­er was wrong with that girl, I don't think she was a Squib.” “The Dum­ble­dore we thought we knew didn't want to con­quer Mug­gles by force!” Har­ry shout­ed, his voice echo­ing across the emp­ty hill­top . “He changed, Harry, he changed! It's as sim­ple as that! Maybe he did be­lieve these things
“Maybe I am!” Har­ry flung his arms over his head, hard­ly know­ing whether he was trying to hold in his anger or pro­tect him­self from the weight of his own disil­lu­sion­ment . “Don't ex­pect me to ex­plain ev­ery­thing, just trust me blind­ly, trust that I know what I'm doing­ing, trust me even though I don't trust you! Nev
Hermione woke re­peat­ed­ly, pan­icky, con­vinced that some­body had called out to him in the dis­tance . The wind whip­ing around the tent was foot­steps or voic­es . Har­ry's dreams were con­fused and dis­turb­ing .
Har­ry paused in the act of pulling on a jumper and glanced at the silent, mo­tion­less Sneako­scope on the ta­ble . “The snow the dark, it plays tricks on your eyes... But per­haps we ought to Dis­ap­pa­rate un­der the In­vis­ibil­ity Cloak, just in case?” Hermione said .
Har­ry felt as though he was re­cu­per­at­ing from some brief but se­vere . That af­ter­noon fresh flakes drift­ed down up­on them . Their es­cape from Go­dric's Hol­low seemed some­how clos­er than be­fore, more threat­en­ing .
Ev­ery tiny move­ment seemed mag­ni­fied in the vast­ness of the for­est . Har­ry knew that it must be full of liv­ing crea­tures, but wished they would all re­main still and silent so that he could sep­arate their in­no­cent scur­ry­ings . Their pro­tective en­chant­ments had worked for weeks; why should they break now?
He jumped to his feet, his voice frozen in his throat, and raised Hermione's wand . He screwed up his eyes as the light be­came blind­ing, the trees in front of it pitch black in sil­hou­ette, and still the thing came clos­er . Har­ry stared at the crea­ture, filled with won­der, not at her strangeness, but her in­ex­pli­ca­ble fa­mil
Snow crunched his feet, but the doe made no noise as she passed through the trees, for she was noth­ing but light . Har­ry walked quick­ly, sure that when she stopped, she would al­low him to ap­proach her prop­er­ly . And then she would speak and the voice would tell him what he need­ed to know . She turned her beau­ti­ful head to­ward him once more, and he broke in­
The ice re­flected his dis­tort­ed shad­ow and the beam of wan­dlight, but deep be­low the thick, misty gray cara­pace . He dropped to his knees and an­gled the wand so as to flood the bot­tom of the pool with as much light as pos­si­ble .
a lit­tle more fear leav­ened his ex­hil­ara­tion as he re­turned his at­ten­tion to the sword repos­ing up­on the bot­tom of the frozen pool . He had been in ter­ri­ble dan­ger then, and had asked for help .
Har­ry stopped walking and let out a long sigh, his smoky breath dis­pers­ing rapid­ly up­on the frozen air . Their dar­ing nerve and chival­ry set Gryffind­or apart . They had had their chance as he walked alone through the for­est . The on­ly rea­son to de­lay was be­cause the im­me­di­ate prospect was so deeply un­invit­ing
Har­ry was shiv­er­ing now, his teeth chat­ter­ing hor­ri­bly, and yet he con­tin­ued to strip off un­til at last he stood there in his un­der­wear . “Diffin­do.” It cracked with a sound like a bul­let in the si­lence . The sur­face of the pool broke and chunks of dark ice rocked on the
Har­ry pushed through the dark wa­ter to the bot­tom and reached out, grop­ing for the sword . His fin­gers closed around the hilt; he pulled it up­ward . Then some­thing closed tight around his neck, and raised his hand to free him­self .
Har­ry had no strength to lift his head and see his sav­ior's iden­ti­ty . He could raise a shak­ing hand to his throat and feel the place where the lock­et cut tight­ly in­to his flesh. Some­one had cut him free. Then a pant­ing voice spoke from over his head . There be­fore him stood Ron, ful­ly dressed but drenched to the skin
Ron had hoped that this point would come up lat­er, if at all . “Oh yeah, I got it out,” he said, rather un­nec­es­sar­ily .
Ron hes­itat­ed, glanc­ing at two trees growing close to­geth­er . “You didn't see any­one else?” Ron asked. “I --” But Har­ry was al­ready hur­ry­ing to the place that Ron had in­di­cat­el .
The Hor­crux was still swing­ing from Ron's hand . It had sensed the presence of the sword and had tried to kill Har­ry . Now was not the time for long dis­cus­sions; now was the mo­ment to de­stroy .
Ron looked at the ser­pen­tine S, in­laid with glit­ter­ing green stones . “Don't open it! I'm se­ri­ous -- you do it --” asked Har­ry . He had backed away, the sword drag­ging at his side, shak­ing his head .
Ron swal­lowed, then still breath­ing hard through his long nose, moved back to­ward the rock . “Tell me when,” he croaked. “On three,” said Har­ry, looking back down at the lock­et and nar­row­ing his eyes, con­cen­trat­ing on the let­ter S, imag­in­ing a ser­pent . It would have been easy to pity it, ex­cept
Har­ry was scared of what was com­ing . He could feel the lock­et quiv­er­ing in the grip . Ron raised the sword still high­er, and as he did so, Rid­dle's eyes gleamed scarlet .
“Why re­turn? We laughed at your stu­pid­ity, your cow­ardice, your pre­sump­tion--” echoed the Rid­dle- Har­ry, who looked hor­ri­fied, yet trans­fixed, the sword hang­ing point­less­ly at his side . “Ron, stab it, STAB IT!” Ron yelled, but Ron did not move .
Rid­dle- Hermione stretched like a snake and en­twined her­self around him . He raised the sword high, his arms shak­ing, and Har­ry thought he saw a trace of scarlet in his eyes . There was on­ly Ron, stand­ing there with the sword held slack­ly in his hand, looking down at the shat­tered re­mains of the lock­et on the flat rock 
Ron had pierced the glass in both win­dows: Riddle's eyes were gone, and the stained silk lin­ing of the lock­et was smok­ing slight­ly . The sword clanged as Ron dropped it. He had sunk to his knees, his head in his arms . Har­ry took it as a good sign that Ron did not throw it off .
Ron hoist­ed his face away from Har­ry and wiped his nose nois­ily on his sleeve . Ron walked back to where Ron's enor­mous ruck­sack lay yards away . “I'm sorry I left. I know I was a -- a," Ron said in a thick voice .
Hermione was fast asleep, curled up un­der her blankets, and did not move un­til Har­ry had said her name sev­er­al times . She saw Ron, who stood there holding the sword and drip­ping on­to the thread­bare car­pet . Harry backed in to a shad­owy cor­ner, slipped off Ron's ruck­sack, and at­tempt­ed to blend in with
Hermione punc­tu­at­ed ev­ery word with a blow: Ron backed away, shield­ing his head . The force of it knocked her back­ward on­to the floor . “Calm --” “I will not calm down!” she screamed. “Don't you dare! Give it back now! And YOU!” she screeched .
Ron said, "Oh, you're sor­ry!" She laughed a high- pitched, out-of-con­trol sound; Ron looked at Har­ry for help . “Well, what else can I say?” Ron shout­ed . "I don't care what he's done! Weeks and weeks, we could have been dead for all he knew --" "I knew you weren't dead!" Ron screamed, drowning her voice for the first time 
Ron glanced at Hermione, clear­ly hope­ful she might soft­en at this small in­stance of hu­mor . Her ex­pres­sion re­mained stony above her tightly knotted limbs . Ron threw her­self down in­to a chair with her arms and legs crossed so tight .
Ron held up his right hand to show two miss­ing fin­ger­nails . “You must have been sim­ply ter­ri­fied, it near­ly killed both of us, and then You- Know- Who him­self ar­rived and missed us by about a sec­ond.” Hermione ig­nored him, but “Ron just saved my life” .
Ron glared at her, then pulled a small sil­ver ob­ject from his jeans pock­et . “I don't know how it works or why it hap­pened then and not any oth­er time, be­cause I've been wanting­ing to come back ev­er since I left.” He was looking­ing at Hermione, her tone some­where be­tween skep­ti­cis
Won's name had been said aloud by ei­ther of them since the day he had left . “So I took it out,” Ron went on, looking at the De­lu­mi­na­tor . He raised his emp­ty hand and point­ed in front of him, his eyes fo­cused on some­thing .
“It sort of float­ed toward me,” said Ron, il­lus­trat­ing the move­ment with his free in­dex fin­ger . “We've been Dis­ap­pa­rat­ing un­der the In­vis­ibil­ity Cloak as an ex­tra pre­cau­tion . And we left re­al­ly ear­ly, be­cause as Har­ry says, we'd heard some
Ron ex­plained how he had watched Har­ry jump in­to the pool . He re­al­ized that some­thing was wrong, dived in, and saved him . “-- and Ron stabbed it with the sword!” she whis­pered .
Har­ry threw the lock­et in­to her lap; gin­ger­ly she picked it up and ex­am­ined its punc­tured win­dows . He re­moved the Shield Charm with a wave of Hermione's wand and turned to Ron . “Oh -- oh yeah.” He tugged open a buck­le on his ruck­sack .
Har­ry saw Ron smil­ing slight­ly as he pulled his ma­roon pa­ja­mas out of his ruck­sack . “I still haven't ruled it out,” came Hermione's muf­led voice from be­neath her blan­kets .
Ron re­spond­ed by main­tain­ing an un­nat­ural­ly somber de­meanor in her pres­ence . Har­ry felt like the on­ly non-pain­er at a poor­ly at­tend­ing fu­ner­al . “Some­one helped us,” he kept saying­ing, “some­one's on our side, One Hor­crux down, mate!” Bol­s
Har­ry felt op­ti­mistic, cer­tain that more break­throughs would suc­ceed the first . Hermione's sulk­iness could not mar his buoy­ant spir­its . The sud­den up­swing in their for­tunes, the ap­pear­ance of the mys­te­ri­ous due, and above all, Ron’s re­turn made Har
Ron was fill­ing Har­ry in on ev­ery­thing he had dis­cov­ered about the wider Wiz­arding world dur­ing his weeks away . “You and Hermione have stopped saying­ing You- Know- Who's name!“ ”Oh, yeah, Well, it's just a bad habit we've slipped in­to,“ said Ron .
Ron caus­ing Har­ry to jump in­to the hedge and Hermione (nose buried in a book at the tent en­trance) to scowl over at them . It's how they found us in Tot­ten­ham Court Road!“ . You've got to give them cred­it, it makes sense .
Ron scratched his chin thought­ful­ly with the end of his wand . “You don't reck­on Kings­ley could have sent that doe?“ ”His Pa­tronus is a lynx, we saw it at the wed­ding, re­mem­ber?“ “Oh yeah...“ They moved far­ther along the hedge, away from the tent and Hermione .
Har­ry did not laugh at Ron, be­cause he un­der­stood too well the long­ing be­hind the ques­tion . The idea that Dum­ble­dore had man­aged to come back to them, that he was watch­ing over them, would have in­ex­press­ibly com­fort­ing . Ron, “Tonks’s changed, didn't it?” said Ron .
Ron knew what he was doing when he gave me the De­lu­mi­na­tor, didn't he? "He must've known I'd run out on you," Ron said . "Which is what?" asked Har­ry .
“No,” Har­ry said, “He must've known you'd al­ways want to come back.” Ron looked grate­ful, but still awk­ward . “Speak­ing of Dum­ble­dore, have you heard what Skeeter wrote about him?” “Oh yeah,” said Ron at once, “peo­ple are talk­ing about it quite a lot.” “Course, if things were dif­fer­ent it'
A large spi­der sat in the mid­dle of a frost­ed web in the bram­bles . Har­ry took aim at it with the wand Ron had giv­en him the pre­vi­ous night .
Har­ry looked down at the black­thorn wand . Ev­ery mi­nor spell had seemed less pow­er­ful than those he had pro­duced . The new one felt in­tru­sive­ly un­fa­mil­iar, like hav­ing some­body else's hand sewn to the end of his arm .
Ron gave Hermione a ten­ta­tive smile, stalked off and vanished be­hind her book once more . All three of them re­turned to the tent when dark­ness fell, and Har­ry took first watch . He tried to make the black­thorn wand lev­itate small stones at his feet .
All the oth­ers are on You- Know-Who's side and are fol­low­ing the Min­istry line . On­ly they can't do it ev­ery night, they have to keep chang­ing lo­ca­tions in case they're raid­ed and you need a pass­word to tune in . He drummed light­ly on the top of the ra­dio with his wand mut­ter­
Fi­nal­ly Hermione climbed down from her bunk . Ron ceased his tap­ping at once, but ap­proached Har­ry . He looked at the book still clutched in her hand .
Xenophilius Love­good stared at her . "Sorry?" he stared a little at her.
Al­bus Dum­ble­dore writ­ten Grindel­wald, with Dum’s fa­mil­iar thin, slant­ing hand­writs­ing . He hat­ed see­ing ab­so­lute proof that Dumble­den those words, that they had not been Ri­ta’s in­ven­tion . “Er – what are you – ?” said Ron ten­t
Vik­tor said it was Grindel­wald’s mark, but it was def­inite­ly on that old grave in Go­dric’s Hol­low . Har­ry looked in­to her in­tense, ea­ger face and then out in–to the sur­round­ing dark­ness, think­ing .
“I’m sure this is im­por­tant!” said Ron syco­phan­ti­cal­ly . “Maybe . it doesn’t,” snapped Hermione, “but I still think we ought to talk to Mr. Love­good.” “I think we should vote on it,” said Ron.
“I dun­no ex­act­ly where, but Mum and Dad al­ways point to­ward the hills when­ev­er they men­tion them.” “All’s fair in love and war,” said Ron bright­ly . From their high van­tage point they looked like a col­lec­tion of toy hous­es .
“I wasn’t at the Bur­row!” said Ron with an in­cred­ulous laugh . “Do you think I was going to go back there and tell them all I’d walked out on you? Yeah, Fred and George would’ve been great about it?” asked Hermione .
“I’ve got a feel­ing you’d be able to tell who lived there if you looked through the Love­goods’ win­dow. Let’s try the next lot of hills.” So they Dis­ap­pa­rat­ed a few miles far­ther north . “I was talking about a chess rook,” said Hermione, frown­ing at the tow­er .
Har­ry thought he rec­og­nized a Snar­galuff and gave the wiz­ened stump a wide berth . Two aged crab ap­ple trees, bent with the wind, stripped of leaves but still heavy with berry-sized red fruits . A lit­tle owl with a slight­ly flat­tened hawk­like head peered down at them from one of the branch­es .
Xenophilius Love­good had been pos­itive­ly dap­per at Bill and Fleur's wed­ding by com­par­ison . “What? What is it? Who are you? What do you want?” he cried in a high- pitched, queru­lous voice .
Har­ry swal­lowed and cast a quick look around the gar­den . They were bare­ly over the thresh­old when Xenophilius slammed the door shut be­hind them . “I . . come in, quick­ly, Quick­ly!” said Harry, slight­ly dis­ap­point­ed .
Ev­ery­thing was curved to fit the walls - the stove, the sink, and cup­boards . Har­ry thought he rec­og­nized Lu­na's styles . The ef­fect in such and en­closed space, was slight­ly over­whelm­ing .
Room of Require­ment re­sem­bled on the un­for­get­table oc­ca­sion that it had trans­formed it­self in­to a gi­gan­tic labyrinth . There were piles up­on piles of books and pa­pers on ev­ery sur­face . Har­ry did not rec­og­nize, all flap­ping wings or snap­ping jaws, hung
“Ex­cuse me,” said Xenophilius, and strode over to the ma­chine . “Why have you come here?” Be­fore Har­ry could speak, how­ev­er, Hermione let out a small cry of shock . See was point­ing at an enor­mous, gray spi­ral horn, not un­like that of a uni­corn .
“No it isn't!” said Hermione . “But Har­ry, it's an Erumpent horn!” asked Ron, edg­ing away from the horn as fast as he could .
“The Crum­ple Horned Snorkack” said Xenophilius very clear­ly, a mul­ish look up­on his face, “is a shy and high­ly mag­ical crea­ture, and it's horn -“ ”Mr. Love­good. I rec­og­nize the grooved mark­ings around the base, that's an Erumpent horn and it’s in­cred­ibly dan
Xenophilius glanced be­hind him at the con­cealed print­ing press, still bang­ing and clat­ter­ing be­neath the table­cloth . ”Er - yes, I have ex­pressed that view, not you per­son­al­ly?“ said Ron .
Xenophilius gulped. He seemed to be steel­ing him­self . “Lu­na is down at the stream, fish­ing for Fresh­wa­ter Plimp­ies. She...she will like to see you. I'll go and call her and then - yes, very well. I shall try to help you.“ He disap­peared down the spi­ral stair­case and they heard the front open and close .
Har­ry crossed to the win­dow on the far side of the room . He could see a stream, a thin, glit­ter­ing rib­bon ly­ing far below them at the base of the hill . Gin­ny was over there some­where. They were clos­er to each oth­er than they had been since Bill and Fleur's wed­ding .
Xenophilius turned away from the win­dows and his gaze fell up­on an­oth­er pe­cu­liar ob­ject stand­ing up on the clut­tered, curved slide board . A tiny pair of glit­ter­ing blue wing was stuck to a leather strap that ran over the top of her head, while one of the or­ange radish­es had been stuck to sec­ond strap around her fore
“Ah, you have spot­ted my pet in­ven­tion,“ Xenophilius said, shov­ing the tray in­to Hermione's arms and joining Har­ry at the stat­ue's side . He in­di­cat­ed the ob­jects like ear trum­pets . These are the Wrackpurt siphons - to re­move all sources of dis­trac­tion
Fi­nal­ly, “he point­ed to the or­ange radish, ”the di­ri­gi­ble Plum, so as to en­hance the abil­ity to ac­cept the ex­traor­di­nary” Xenophilius strode back to the tea tray, which Hermione had man­aged to bal­ance pre­car­ious­ly on one of the clut­tered side 
Xenophilius raised his eye­brows . “Are you re­fer­ring to the sign of the Death­ly Hallows?” he said .
Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows CHAPTER TWENTY-ONE THE TALE OF THE THREE BROTH­ERS Har­ry turned to look at Ron and Hermione . “You haven't heard of them? I'm not sur­prised. Very, very few wiz­ards be­lieve. Wit­ness that knuck­le- head­ed young man at your broth­er's wed­ding,” he no
“Well, you see, believ­ers seek the Death­ly Hal­lows?” asked Hermione . “I assume that you are fa­mil­iar with 'The Tale of the Three Broth­ers'?” Har­ry said, “No,” but Ron and Hermimione both said “Yes.” Xenophilius nod­ded grave­ly .
Xenophilius was star­ing out of the win­dow at the sky . “Sor­ry, I just think it's a bit spook­ier if it’s mid­night!” said Ron . "Go on, Hermione,” in­ter­ject­ed Har­ry. "And Death spoke to them. He was an­gry that he had been cheated out of them"
"So the old­est broth­er, who was an ar­ro­gant man, asked for a wand more pow­er­ful than any in ex­is­tence" So Death crossed to an el­der tree on the banks of the riv­er . So Death picked up a stone from the river­bank and gave it to the sec­ond broth­ers . And Death asked for some­thing that would en­able him to go forth from that
"'Then Death stood aside and al­lowed the three broth­ers to con­tin­ue on their way, and they did so talk­ing with won­der of the ad­ven­ture they had had and the gifts they had . "The first broth­er trav­eled on for a week more, and reaching a dis­tant vil­lage, sought out a fel­low wiz­ard with whom he had a quar­rel 
Fi­nal­ly the sec­ond broth­er, driv­en mad with hope­less long­ing, killed him­self so as to tru­ly join her . It was on­ly when he had at­tained a great age that Death took off the Cloak of In­vis­ibil­ity and gave it to his son . “Those are the Death­ly Hallows,” said Xenophilius.
“The El­der Wand,” Xenophilius said, adding a cir­cle on top of the line . “To­geth­er,” he said, “the Death­ly Hal­lows.” “Well, of course not,” said Hermione .
Hermione, and Har­ry could tell that she was trying to keep any trace of skep­ti­cism out of her voice . “Mr. Love­good, how can you pos­si­bly be­lieve – ?” Xenophilius raised his eye­brows again .
We are talking about a cloak that ren­ders the wearer com­plete­ly in­vis­ible, and en­dures eter­nal­ly, giv­ing con­stant and im­pen­etra­ble con­ceal­ment . The pos­ses­sor would be im­mea­sur­ably rich, would he not?” He glanced out of the win­dow again .
“Say the Cloak ex­ist­ed. What about that stone, Mr. Love­good? The thing you call the Res­ur­rec­tion Stone?” “What of it?” “Well, how can that be re­al?” “Prove that is not,” said Xenophilius .
“Which is that the pos­ses­sor of the wand must cap­ture it from its pre­vi­ous own­er, if he is to be tru­ly mas­ter of it,” said Xenophilius . The bloody trail of the El­der Wand is splat­tered across the pages of Wiz­ard­ing his­to­ry .
“You have been mis­lead­ing me, young wom­an!” said Xenophilius . “I thought you were new to the Hal­lows Quest! Many of us Questers be­lieve that the Peverells have ev­ery­thing to do with the Hal–lows!” asked Ron .
“I s'pose this is the man who brought us Crum­ple- Horned Snorkacks,” said Ron . “You didn't be­lieve it ei­ther?” Har­ry asked him . 'May- born witch­es will mar­ry Muggles.'
Hermione sighed deeply as a rather pun­gent smell drifted up from the kitchen . The three of them spoke at the same time: Ron said, “the Cloak” and Har­ry said, „the stone.” They looked at each oth­er, half sur­prised, half amused .
“We've al­ready got an In­vis­ibil­ity Cloak,” said Har­ry . “On­ly if you were prat enough to go danc­ing around wav­ing it over your head,” ar­gued Ron .
The Death­stick, the Wand of Des­tiny, they crop up un­der dif­fer­ent names through the cen­turies . Some wiz­ards just like to boast that theirs are big­ger and bet­ter than oth­er peo­ple's“ ”But how do you know,“ said Har­ry .
Ron asked him if he could bring peo­ple back, we could have Sir­ius...Mad- Eye...Dum­ble­dore...my par­ents...“ But ac­cord­ing to Bee­dle the Bard, they wouldn't want to come back, would they?
Har­ry won­dered whether it would be pos­si­ble to eat enough of what­ev­er Xenophilius was cook­ing to spare his feel­ings . “What about the Cloak, though?” said Ron slow­ly. “Don't you re­al­ize, he's right? I don't sup­pose there have been loads of sto­ries about a stone that can raise the dead, have there
I've heard of one like Har­ry's. It's in­fal­li­ble. We're in­vis­ible when we're un­der it, Ron! "All the stuff he said about oth­er cloaks, and they're not ex­act­ly ten a Knut, you know, is true! It’s nev­er's oc­curred to me be­fore but I’ve heard stuff
Lu­na had dec­orat­ed her bed­room ceil­ing with five beau­ti­ful­ly painted faces . Har­ry, Ron, Hermione, Gin­ny, and Neville were not mov­ing as the por­traits at Hog­warts moved .
Har­ry felt a great rush of af­fec­tion for Lu­na . He looked around the room. There was a large pho­to­graph be­side the bed . They looked rather bet­ter- groomed in this pic­ture than Harry had ev­er seen her in life .
The bed had a cold, un­friend­ly look, as though it had not been slept in for weeks . A sin­gle cob­web stretched over the near­est win­dow across the blood red sky . Xenophilius reached the top of the stairs from the kitchen, now holding a tray laden with bowls .
Xenophilius dropped the tray. The bowls bounced and smashed Har­ry, Ron, and Hermione drew their wands . At that mo­ment the print­ing press have a huge bank and nu­mer­ous Quibblers came stream­ing across the floor .
The Quib­bler's go­ing for a new an­gle, then?: Har­ry asked cold­ly, his mind work­ing very fast . Xenophilius licked his lips “They took my Lu­na,” he whis­pered, “Be­cause of what I've been writ­ing. They might give her back to me if I -- If I -- I--” “Hand over Harry?”
Xenophilius looked ghast­ly, a cen­tu­ry old, his lips drawn back in­to a dread­ful leer . He spread his arms in front of the stair­case, and Har­ry had a sud­den vi­sion of his moth­er do­ing the same thing . “Don't make us hurt you,” Hermione screamed .
Xenophilius's Stun­ning Spell soared across the room and hit the Erumpent horn . Har­ry flew through the air, then crashed to the floor, un­able to see as de­bris rained up­on him, his arms over his head .
Rowe­na Raven­claw lay be­side him with half its face miss­ing frag­ments of torn parch­ment were float­ing through the air . Most of the print­ing press lay on its side, block­ing the top of the stair­case to the kitchen . “Didn't I tell you this nut­ter was just rav­ing as usu­al?” said a rough voice .
"I told you last week Love­good, we weren't com­ing back for any­thing less than some sol­id in­for­ma­tion!" Bang -- “Head­ed”--bang--“Snorkacks?” “No -- no -- I beg of you!” sobbed Xenophilius . “The place looks like it's about to fall in, Sel­wyn,” Bang said .
Sel­wyn said a cool sec­ond voice, echo­ing up the man­gled stair­case . “You have nev­er seen Pot­ter in your life, have you? Thought you'd lure us here to kill us, did you? And you think you'll get your girl back like this?” Har­ry heard Hermione gasp, and he had the odd sen­sa­tion some­thing was swoop­ing low over him,
Xenophilius gave a wail of fear and de­spair . There were scur­ry­ings and scrap­ing . Ron was buried the stair­case .
Har­ry and Hermione climbed, as qui­et­ly as they could, over all the wreck­age to where he lay . Xenophilius bang­ing and scrap­ing drew near­er and near­­er . Ron man­aged to free Ron with the use of a Hov­er Charm .
Ron van­ished be­neath the Cloak. The print­ing press block­ing the stairs was vi­brat­ing . Xenophilius's pa­per- white face ap­peared over the top of the side­board .
Hermione twist­ed in midair and thun­der­ing of the col­laps­ing house rang in Har­ry's ears as she dragged him once more in­to dark­ness.
Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows CHAPTER TWENTY-TWO THE DETH­LY HAL­LOWS Har­ry fell, pant­ing, on­to grass and scram­bled up at once . Hermione was al­ready run­ning in a cir­cle around them, wav­ing her wand . “Cave In­im­icum...Didn’t I say it was an Frumpent 
“You’re a ge­nius,” said Hermione fer­vent­ly . “I don’t know what we’d do with­out you.” She beamed, but be­came solemn at once. “She must be alive, she must!” said Ron .
The Death­ly Hal­lows...such rub­bish...al­though ac­tu­al­ly,” a sud­den thought seemed to have struck her, “he might have made it all up, mightn’t he? He prob­ably doesn’t be­lieve in the Death–ly Hal–lows at all, he just want­ed to keep us talk­ing un­til the Death Eaters ar­rived!” “I don’t think
“The Tale of the Three Broth­ers’ is a sto­ry,” said Hermione firm­ly . “I don’t know. We could do with an un­beat­able wand,” said Har­ry .
He saw con­cern and some­thing less eas­ily de­fin­able in Hermione’s ex­pres­sion . He had scared her with his talk of liv­ing with dead peo­ple . “You don’t know any­thing about him, then?” she replied .
Ron and Hermione looked be­wil­dered . “Mar­vo­lo Gaunt! You- Know- Who’s grand­fa­ther! In the Pen­sieve! With Dum­ble­dore! I saw him wav­ing it in the bloke from the Min­istry’s face, he near­ly shoved it up his nose!”
Hermione cau­tious­ly looked at Ron for sup­port . “It was a stone, wasn’t it?” Ron’s mouth fell open . He looked at her feet looking ex­as­per­at­ed and an­gry .
“Hermione, it fits of its own ac­cord! I know the sign of the Death­ly Hal­lows was on that stone!” “A minute ago you told us you nev­er saw the mark on the stone prop­er­ly!” “Where’d you reck­on the ring is now?” Ron asked Har­ry. “What did Dumble­dore do with it af­ter he broke it open?” “But Harry’s imag
The Cloak was ex­act­ly what Xenophilius had de­scribed: A cloak that re­al­ly and tru­ly ren­ders the wear­er com­plete­ly in­vis­ible . And then, with a gasp, he remem­bered— “Dum­ble­dore had my Cloak the night my par­ents died!” His voice shook and he could feel the col­
“Read it! Dumble­dore had the Cloak, Hermione! Why else would he want it? He could per­form a Dis­il­lu­sion Charm so pow­er­ful that he made him com­plete­ly in­vis­ible with­out one!” Some­thing fell to the floor and rolled, glit­ter­ing, un­der a chair: He had dis­lodged the Snitch when 
All his ex­cite­ment, all his hope and hap­pi­ness were ex­tin­guished at a stroke . He stood alone in the dark­ness, and the glo­ri­ous spell was bro­ken . It all made sense, Volde­mort was not seeking­ing a new wand . No­body could have told him The Tales of Bee­dle the Bard .
Har­ry watched the cloudy sky, curves of smoke- gray and sil­ver slid­ing over the face of the white moon . He felt light­head­ed with amaze­ment at his dis­cov­er­ies . It was a shock to see Ron and Hermione stand­ing ex­act­ly where he had left them . Didn’t they re­al­ize how far they had traveled in the last few min­ute
The Death­ly Hal­lows are re­al­ly ex­ist­ed, and Dum­ble­dore knew that the per­son who pos­sessed all of them would be mas­ter of Death --- Har­ry, why wouldn’t he have told you? “But you said it, Hermione! You’ve got to find out about them for your­self! It’s a Quest!”
Dumble­dore left you very clear in­struc­tions: Find and de­stroy the Hor­crux­es! Har­ry was bare­ly lis­ten­ing to her . He was turning the Snitch over and over in his hands, half ex­pect­ing it to break open, to re­veal the Res­ur­rec­tion Stone, to prove to Hermione that he was right, that the Death­
Har­ry wished his scar would burn and show him Volde­mort’s thoughts . The truth was that she was scared of the idea of the Death­ly Hal­lows . And Harry pressed his mouth again to the Snitch, kissing it, near­ly swal­low­ing it .
Lu­na had for­got­ten all about her in his fever­ish con­tem­pla­tion of the Hal­lows . If on­ly they could res­cue her, but de­men­tors in those num­bers would be vir­tu­al­ly unas­sail­able . Now he had not tried cast­ing a Pa­tronus with the black­thorn wand...He must try that in the
Har­ry’s be­lief in and long­ing for the Hal­lows con­sumed him so much that he felt iso­lat­ed from the oth­er two and their ob­ses­sion with the Hor­crux­es . He blamed Ron and Hermione: Their de­ter­mined in­dif­fer­ence was as bad as the re­lent­less rain for damp­ing his spir
Dum­ble­dore had left the sign of the Hal­lows for Hermione to de­ci­pher . Har­ry re­mained con­vinced of it, leaving the Res­ur­rec­tion Stone hid­den in the gold­en Snitch .
Har­ry sought soli­tude when­ev­er it hap­pened, but was dis­ap­point­ed by what he saw . The vi­sions he and Volde­mort were shar­ing had changed in qual­ity; they had be­come blurred, shift­ing as though they were mov­ing in and out of fo­cus . He was wor­ried that the con­nec­tion be
Ron was de­ter­mined to make up for hav­ing walked out on them . He was the one now en­cour­ing and ex­hort­ing the oth­er two in­to ac­tion . “You nev­er know,” was Har­ry’s con­stant re­frain .
Ron spent evening af­ter evening us­ing his wand to beat out var­ious rhythms on top of the wire­less while the di­als whirled . Ron con­tin­ued to try to hit on the cor­rect pass­word, mut­ter­ing strings of ran­dom words un­der his breath . “Some of them are sup­posed to be as bad as Death Eaters,” said Ron .
Har­ry was sitting in the tent en­trance, on guard du­ty, star­ing idly at a clump of grape hy­acinths that had forced their way through the chilly ground . Ron shouted ex­cit­ed­ly from in­side the tent to find Ron and Hermione kneel­ing on the floor . “...now found our­selves an­oth­er se­cure lo­
“We in­form our lis­ten­ers of the murders of Ted Tonks and Dirk Cress­well.” Har­ry felt a sick, swoop­ing in his bel­ly . It is be­lieved that Mug­gle-born Dean Thomas and a sec­ond gob­lin may have es­caped . If any­one has any knowl­edge of his where­abouts, his par­ent
The Or­der of the Phoenix in­forms us that her body showed un­mis­tak­able signs of in­juries in­flicted by Dark Mag­ic . It was the first time he had felt ful­ly con­nect­ed to the out­side world for a long time . “Thanks, Riv­er,” said a deep, mea­sured, re­as­sur­ing voice .
“Mug­gles re­main ig­no­rant of the source of their suf­fer­ing,” said Kings­ley . “How­ev­er, we con­tin­ue to hear tru­ly in­spi­ra­tional sto­ries of wiz­ards and witch­es risk­ing their own safe­ty to pro­tect Muggle friends and neighbors . Many lives could
“We know it’s Lupin!” “Ro­mu­lus, do you main­tain, as you have ev­ery time you’ve ap­peared on our pro­gram, that Har­ry Pot­ter is still alive?” “I do,” Lupin firm­ly . “There is no doubt at all in my mind that his death would be pro­claimed as wide­ly as pos­si­ble by the Death Eaters if it had 
“I sup­pose it helps, when escap­ing from Death Eaters, if you’ve got a six­teen-foot-high half broth­er?” asked Lee . “At least he’s still alive!” mut­tered Lupin .
‘Sup­port Har­ry Pot­ter’ par­ties are un­wise in the present cli­mate’ . “In­deed they are, Ro­mu­lus . So we sug­gest that you con­tin­ue to show your de­vo­tion to the man with the light­ning scar .
The air of mys­tery is cre­at­ing more ter­ror than ac­tu­al­ly show­ing him­self . You- Know- Who can kill peo­ple with a sin­gle glance from his eyes . Check whether the thing that’s glar­ing at you has got legs .
Hear­ing fa­mil­iar, friend­ly voic­es was an ex­traor­di­nary ton­ic . Har­ry had be­come so used to their iso­la­tion he had near­ly for­got­ten that oth­er peo­ple were re­sist­ing Volde­mort . “Good, eh?” said Ron hap­pi­ly.
“It’s so brave of them,” sighed Hermione ad­mir­ing­ly . “Well, they keep on the move, don’t they?” asked Har­ry ex­cit­ed­ly; now the broad­cast was over, his thoughts turned around to­ward his all con­sum­ing ob­ses­sion.
Har­ry looked around at the oth­er two, now mere out­lines in the dark­ness . He saw Hermione point her wand, set to­ward the out­side, but in­to his face . There was a bang, a burst of white light, and he buck­led in agony, un­able to see .
Har­ry's stom­ach turned over. He knew who this was, Fen­rit Grey­back, the were­wolf who was per­mit­ted to wear Death Eater robes in re­turn for his hired sav­agery . A thud told him that Ron had been cast down be­side him . They could hear foot­steps and crash­es; the men were pushing over chairs in­side the tent as they searched .
Grey­back and Har­ry head him side­ways to look down at Ron . “We know Stan Shun­pike, 'e's put a bit of work our way.” There was an­oth­er thud .
A few Or­der mem­bers have been tracked that way. We'll see. Bind them up with the oth­er pris­on­ers! Har­ry was still half blind, bare­ly able to see any­thing through his puffed- up eyes . “This is all my fault. I said the name. I'm sorry -” “Har­ry?” was a new, but fa­mil­iar voice .
Grey­back smelled as he had done at the top of the tow­er where Dum­ble­dore had died . “It is you! If they find out who they've got -! They're Snatch­ers, they're on­ly looking­ing for tru­ants to sell for gold -” “No bad little haul for one night.” “You checked their names yet, Scabior?” he roared .
“Well, well, looks like we re­al­ly 'ave caught a lit­tle Slytherin” said Scabior . “He works at the Min­istry,” Har­ry lied. “I think there is a Dudley in there.”
Grey­back knew that he was won­dering whether he had just at­tacked and bound the son of a Min­istry Of­fi­cial . “If you're telling the truth, ug­ly, you've got noth­ing to fear from a trip to the Min–istry. I ex­pect your fa­ther'll re­ward us just for picking­ing you up.” Har­ry, his mouth bone dry,
Har­ry's scar burned in the si­lence, but he made a supreme ef­fort to keep him­self present, nor to slip in­to Volde­mort's mind . Grey­back's ter­ri­fied squeak was as good as a con­fes­sion . “... known to be trav­el­ing with 'ar­ry Pot­ter,” re­peat­e
Har­ry's scar was Exquisite­ly painful, but he strug­gled with all his strength . It had nev­er been so im­por­tant to re­main in his own right mind . “Well, this changed things, doesn't it?” whis­pered Grey­back .
Har­ry was hid­ing around the high walls of the black fortress . They were dis­cussing his fate in low voic­es . Grey­back thought he knew why Volde­mort was not calling­ing him .
Grey­back, who’s in charge here, cov­er­ing his mo­ment of in­ad­equa­cy . The win­dow was the mer­est slit in the black rock, not big enough for a man to en­ter . A skele­tal fig­ure was just vis­ible through it, curled be­neath a blan­ket .
The pris­on­ers lurched in­to one an­oth­er as they land­ed in a coun­try lane . Har­ry’s eyes, still puffy, took a mo­ment to ac­cli­ma­tize, then he saw a pair of wrought-iron gates at the foot of what looked like a long drive . He ex­pe­ri­enced the tini­est trick­le
The iron was con­tort­ing, twist­ing it­self out of the ab­stract furls and coils in­to a fright­en­ing face . “State your pur­pose!” “We’ve cap­tured Har­ry Pot­ter!” The gates swung open. “Come on!” said Grey­back to his men . The pris­on­ers were shunt­ed through the gates and up the drive,
Har­ry’s scar threat­ened to burst with pain, and he wrenched his mind back to his own body . There was re­sent­ment in the were­wolf’s voice .
Har­ry Pot­ter is home for his East­er hol­idays . The draw­ing room daz­zled af­ter the dark­ness out­side . A crys­tal chan­de­lier could make out the wide pro­por­tions of the room .
Har­ry saw his own re­flec­tion for the first time since leav­ing Grim­mauld Place . His black hair reached his shoul­ders and there was a dark shad­ow around his jaw . He resolved not to speak, for his voice was sure to give him away .
Har­ry saw Dra­co’s face up close now, right be­side his fa­ther’s . They were ex­traor­di­nar­ily alike, ex­cept that while he looked him­side him­self with ex­cite­ment . “I don’t know,” he said, and walked away to­ward the fire­place .
“We had bet­ter be cer­tain, Lu­cius,” Nar­cis­sa called to her hus­band in her cold, clear voice . “Com­plete­ly sure that it is Pot­ter, be­fore we sum­mon the Dark Lord” – she was looking­ing close­ly at the black­thorn wand .
Bel­la­trix Lestrange walked slow­ly around the pris­on­ers, and stopped on Har­ry’s right, star­ing at Hermione through her heav­ily lid­ded eyes . “Yes, yes, it’s Granger!” cried Lu­cius, “And be­side her, we think, Pot­ter! The Dark Lord must be in­formed at once!” she dragged back her left sleeve .
“Gold!” laughed Bel­la­trix, still at­tempt­ing to throw off her broth­er- in- law, her free hand grop­ing in her pock­et for her wand . “Stu­pe­fy!” she screamed, ”Stu­py!” . Lu­cius threw her hand from him and ripped up his own sleeve .
Grey­back was a witch, as Harry knew, with prodi­gious skill and no con­science . She saw Bel­la­trix bear­ing down up­on the were­wolf, the sword of Gryffind­or gripped tight­ly in her hand, her face wax­en . “Where did you find this sword?” she whis­pered, his mouth the on­ly thing that could move as he was forced to gaze up at her .
Be qui­et! The sit­ua­tion is graver than you can pos­si­bly imag­ine, Cis­sy! We have a very se­ri­ous prob­lem!” She stood, pant­ing slight­ly, looking­ing down at the sword, ex­am­in­ing its hilt . “If it is in­deed Pot­ter, he must not be harmed,” she mut­
Grey­back forced the rest of them to shuf­fle across to a dark pas­sage­way . They were forced down a steep flight of stairs, still tied back- to- back and in dan­ger of slip­ping and break­ing their necks at any mo­ment .
“HERMIONE!” Ron bel­lowed, and he started to writhe and strug­gle against the ropes ty­ing them to­geth­er, so that Har­ry stag­gered . “Hermione!” “Mr. Ol­li­van­der, have you got the nail? I think it was be­side the wa­ter jug.” “You’ll need to stay still,” she said .
Hermione strug­gled hard­er than ev­er, and the rusty nail slipped on­to Har­ry’s wrist . “Ron, please stay still!” Lu­na whis­pered .
Har­ry felt the ropes fall away and turned to see Ron run­ning around the cel­lar, looking­ing up at the low ceil­ing, search­ing for a trap­door . Dean, his face bruised and bloody, said “Thanks” to Lu­na and stood there, shiv­er­ing . Griphook sank on­to the floor, looking grog­gy and dis­ori­ent­ed, many welt
Hermione was half sob­bing as he pound­ed the walls with his fists . Har­ry in ut­ter des­per­ation seized Ha­grid’s pouch from around his neck and groped in­side it . “We’re in the cel­lar of Mal­foy Manor, help us!” The eye blinked and was gone .
Dra­co whis­pered in­to the gob­lin’s point­ed ear, “you must tell them that sword’s a fake, they mustn’t know it’s the re­al one, Griphook, please –“ He could hear some­one scut­tling own the steps . As the lock turned, Ron clicked the De­lu­mi­na­tor . Three balls of light flew back in
Har­ry squeaked in the tini­est quiver of a voice, “Dob­by has come to res­cue you” . “You can Dis­ap­pa­rate out of this cel­lar?” he asked . He nod­ded again .
“Of course, Har­ry Pot­ter,” whis­pered the lit­tle elf . He took one of the wand­mak­er’s hands in his own, then held out the oth­er to Lu­na and Dean, nei­ther of whom moved . “Go! We’ll follow, just go!” he said .
Har­ry knew that the peo­ple in the draw­ing room were lis­ten­ing for more nois­es from the cel­lar . The mo­ment any­one en­tered the room and saw the ab­sence of three pris­on­ers, they were lost . They backed against the wall on ei­ther side of it, ablaze with light from the minia­ture suns float­ing in midair .
“You’re going to kill me?” Har­ry choked, at­tempt­ing to prise off the met­al fin­gers . He saw the rat­like man’s wa­tery eyes widen with fear and sur­prise . “And we’ll have that,” whis­pered Ron, tug­ging Worm­tail’s wand from his oth­er hand .
Ron and Har­ry tried to pull the crushing met­al fingers from around Worm­tail’s throat . Pet­ti­grew dropped to his knees, and at the same mo­ment, Hermione gave a dread­ful scream from over­head . Bel­la­trix looked at Griphook, holding Gryffind­or’s sword in his long- fin­gered hands .
A burst of green light filled the prison room and the frail old body was lifted from its hard bed and then fell back, life­less, and Volde­mort re­turned to the win­dow, his wrath bare­ly con­trol­lable . They would suf­fer his ret­ri­bu­tion if they had no good rea­son for calling­ing him back .
Bel­la­trix looked around, shocked; she turned her wand to face Ron in­stead . Har­ry threw him­self to the floor, rolling be­hind a so­fa to avoid them . “Drop them, or we’ll see ex­act­ly how filthy her blood is!” she screeched, press­ing the blade in­to Hermione’s throat .
The Dark Lord is com­ing, Har­ry Pot­ter! Your death ap­proach­es!” Harry knew it; his scar was burst­ing with the pain of it . He could feel Volde­mort fly­ing through the sky from far away, over a dark and stormy sea . “Now,” said Bel­la­trix soft­ly, as Dra­co hur­ried back to her with the wands .
The were­wolf was lifted off his feet by the triple spell, flew up to the ceil­ing and then smashed to the ground . The tiny elf trot­ted in­to the room, his shak­ing fin­ger point­ing at his old mis­tress .
Har­ry dis­ap­peared in­to the un­known; all he could do was re­peat the name of the desti­na­tion and hope that it would suf­fice to take him there . The pain in his fore­head pierced him, and the weight of the gob­lin bore down up­on him . He won­dered whether the elf was trying to take charge, to pull them in the right di­
Har­ry fell to his knees, re­linquished Dob­by’s hand, and at­tempt­ed to low­er Griphook gen­tly to the ground . There seemed to be a cot­tage a short way away un­der the wide star­ry sky . The lit­tle elf stood feet from him, clutch­ing the two wands he had brought from the Mal­foys’ .
Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows CHAPTER TWENTY-FOUR THE WAND­MAK­ER It was like sink­ing in­to an old night­mare . For an in­stant Har­ry knelt again be­side Dumble­dore’s body at the foot of the tallest tow­er at Hog­warts, but in re­al­ity he was star­ing at a tiny body curled
Har­ry looked back down at Dob­by. He stretched out a hand and pulled the sharp blade from the elf’s body, then dragged off his own jack­et and cov­ered it like a blanket . Dean car­ried the in­jured Griphook in­to the house, Fleur hur­ry­ing with them .
Har­ry dug with a kind of fury, rel­ish­ing the man­ual work, glo­ry­ing in the non- mag­ic of it, for ev­ery drop of his sweat . He had learned con­trol at last, learned to shut his mind to Volde­mort, the very thing Dum­ble­dore had wanted him to learn from Snape .
Deep­er and deep­er Har­ry sank in­to the grave . He knew where Volde­mort had been tonight, and why... And he thought of Worm­tail, dead be­cause of one small un­con­scious im­pulse of mer­cy...Dum­ble­dore had fore­seen that...How much more had he known? He knew on­ly that the dark­ness had light­ened a
Har­ry placed the elf in­to the grave, ar­ranged his tiny limbs so that he might have been rest­ing, then climbed out and gazed for the last time up­on the lit­tle body . He re­mem­bered Dum­ble­dore’s fu­ner­al, and rows and rows of gold­en chairs, and the Min­is­ter of Mag­ic in front row .
ev­ery­body looked ex­pect­ing­ly at Ron, who cleared his throat and said in a thick voice, “yeah...thanks Dob­by” Har­ry swal­lowed . “Good bye Dobby,” he said, but Lu­na had said it all for him .
He picked up one of the largest and laid it, pillow­like, over the place where Dob­by’s head now rest­ed . He had for­got­ten, lost track; he could not now re­mem­ber whose wands these were . Slow­ly, un­der his mur­mured in­struc­tion, deep cuts ap­peared up­on the rock’s sur­face .
The Death Eaters know Ron’s with you now, they’re bound to tar­get the fam­ily –don’t apol­ogize,” asked Har­ry . Ol­li­van­der and Griphook are well enough, we’ll move them to Muriel’s too .
“No,” Har­ry said and Bill looked star­tled . “I need both of them here. I need to talk to them. It’s im­por­tant.” He heard the au­thor­ity of his own voice, the con­vic­tion, the voice of pur­pose that had come to him as he dug Dob­by’s grave. “Then I’ll need to see them, straight away.” He walked in­to the lit­tle kitchen
Har­ry stood still, eyes glazed, watching the place where a bright gold ray of daz­zling sun was ris­ing over the hori­zon . He set it down and re­turned to the hall, and as he did so, felt his scar pulse an­gri­ly, and flashed across his mind, swift as the reflec­tion of a drag­on­fly over wa­ter . Bill and Fleur were standing at the
Fleur made an im­pa­tient noise, but Bill did not look at her . He was star­ing at Har­ry; his deeply scarred face was hard to read . “I’ll speak to Griphook first,” Bill said .
Ron and Hermione skulk­ing, half con­cealed, in the door­way of the sit­ting room . They both moved in­to the light, looking odd­ly re­lieved . “What are we doing­ing now, Har­ry?” he asked. “You’ll see. Come on.” Bill opened the door in to the win­dow .
Har­ry be­gan wore a strange look: half tru­cu­lent, half in­trigued . He was larg­er than a house- elf, but not by much . “You prob­ably don’t re­mem­ber –” said Har-ry .
Griphook ap­proved of Dobby’s grave or not . “You brought me here. Saved me.” “Well, I take it you’re not sor­ry?” said Har­ry a lit­tle im­pa­tient­ly .
“It’s im­pos­si­ble.” “No, it isn’t,” Ron con­tra­dict­ed him . “The vault in ques­tion was emp­ty at the time,” snapped the gob­lin, and Har­ry un­der­stood that even though Griphook had let Gringotts, he was of­fend­ing at the idea of its de­fens­es be­ing
“If there was a wiz­ard of whom I would be­lieve that they did not seek per­son­al gain,” said Griphook fi­nal­ly, “it would be you, Har­ry Pot­ter. Not from wand- car­ri­ers.” “Well, gob­lins can do mag­ic with­outs,” said Ron . “You won’t tell us how to make swords and ar­mor the way you do.
“It doesn’t mat­ter,” said Har­ry . “You can’t want You- Know- Who defeat­ed more than we do, Griphook!” said Hermione .
“I think that you al­ready know this. You asked me to lie for you back there.” He re­dou­bled his ef­forts to ig­nore the puls­ing of his scar . The gob­lin stroked the sword, and his black eyes roved from Har­ry to Hermione to Ron and then back again . “We haven’t got a hope of break­ing in with a gob
“I think,” he said, set­tling him­self os­ten­ta­tious­ly up­on Bill and Fleur’s bed, “that the Skele- Gro has fin­ished its work.” “Yeah, of course,” said Har­ry, but be­fore leav­ing the room he leaned for­ward and took the sword of Gryffind­or from be­side the gob­lin .
“I don’t know whether he was ev­er in­side Gringotts,” said Har­ry . “You re­al­ly un­der­stand him,” said Ron and Hermione .
Ron and Hermione looked be­wil­dered but very im­pressed as they fol­lowed him across the lit­tle land­ing and knocked up­on the door op­po­site Bill and Fleur’s . The wand­mak­er was ly­ing on the twin bed far­thest from the win­dow . He had been held in the cel­lar for more than a year, and tor­tured,
Ol­li­van­der groped in the pouch around his neck and took out the two halves of his bro­ken wand . Har­ry placed the two bare­ly con­nect­ed halves in his palm .
Ol­li­van­der stared at the place where the shat­tered wand had van­ished . “Can you iden­ti­fy these?” Har­ry asked. “Isn’t it still his?” “Per­haps not. If you took it –” “———then it may be yours. Of course, the man­ner of tak­ing mat­ters.” “How­ev­er, where a 
There was a si­lence in the room, ex­cept for the dis­tant rush­ing of the sea . “The wand choos­es the wiz­ard,” said Ol­li­van­der . The best re­sults, how­ev­er, must al­ways come where there is the strongest affin­ity be­tween .
Ol­li­van­der, his pro­tu­ber­ant eyes up­on Har­ry’s face . “There are leg­ends, though,” said Harry . He was sure Volde­mort has de­cid­ed to put his idea in­to ac­tion.
Ol­li­van­der looked ter­ri­fied, trans­fixed, by the amount that Har­ry knew . “You told him about the twin cores? You said he just had to bor­row an­oth­er wiz­ard’s wand?” he nod­ded slow­ly .
Ol­li­van­der looked flag­ger­gast­ed at Hermione . Har­ry asked about that wand, didn’t he? “Yes, he asked,” whis­pered Ol­leg­der . “The Dark Lord,” said Olleg. “He wanted to know ev­ery­thing I could tell him about the .
“Pri­ori In­can­tatem,” said Har­ry . The lit­tle col­or she had re­gained since their ar­rival had drained from her face . “Let’s not wor­ry about that now ---” Mr. Ol­li­van­der in­ter­vened .
Ol­li­van­der has cer­tain char­ac­teris­tics that those who are learned in wand­lore rec­og­nize . There are gaps, of course, and long ones, where it van­ish­es from view, tem­porar­ily lost or hid­den . “So you – you don’t think it can be a fairy tale or a myth?” Hermione asked hope­
Ol­li­van­der looked ghost­ly as he gulped . “You told You- Know- Who that Gre­gorovitch had the wand?” “It was a ru­mor,” said Har­ry .
“He was tor­tur­ing me!” he gasped . “I re­al­ly do. Please get some rest. Thank you for telling me all of this.” Har­ry caught glimpses of Bill, Fleur, Lu­na, and Dean sitting at the ta­ble in the kitchen, cups of tea in front of them .
“Gre­gorovitch had the El­der Wand a long time ago,” he said, “I saw You- Know- Who try­ing to find him.” When he tracked him down, he found that Gre­Gorovitch didn’t have it any­more: It was stolen from him by Grindel­wald . “I don’t know – but if Gre­GOrovitch was stupid enough to spread the ru­mor, it cannot have been that dif­
“Hermione’s right. Dumble­dore didn’t want me to have it. He want­ed me to get the Hor­crux­es.” “The un­beat­able wand, Har­ry!” moaned Ron. “I’m not sup­posed to . . I’m .
He raised the old yew wand: How fit­ting that this would be its last great act . The wrap­pings fell open. The face was translu­cent, pale, sunken, yet al­most per­fect­ly pre­served . Had the old fool imag­ined that mar­ble or death would pro­tect the tomb? Had he thought that the Dark Lord would be scared to vi­olate his tomb?
Bill and Fleur's cot­tage stood alone on a cliff over­look­ing the sea . He could hear the con­stant ebb and flow of the sea, like the breath­ing of some great, slum­ber­ing crea­ture . The enor­mi­ty of his deci­sion not to race Volde­mort to the wand still scared Har­ry .
Har­ry had no an­swers: There were mo­ments when he won­dered whether it had been out­right mad­ness not to try to pre­vent Volde­mort break­ing open the tomb . He could not even ex­plain sat­is­fac­to­ri­ly why he had tried to re­con­struct the in­ter­nal ar­gu­ments that had led to his de­ci­sion .
Har­ry had been star­ing out over the wall that sep­arat­ed the cot­tage gar­den from the cliff when Ron and Hermione had found him . He wished they had not, hav­ing no wish to join in with their ar­gu­ment . “But you don't thing you did, do you?” Ron asked .
“I can't -- but can you ex­plain how Dum­ble­dore sent him to us if he's ly­ing in a tomb at Hog­warts?” Ron asked . “What d'you mean, 'gone on'?” Fleur had come out of the cot­tage, her long sil­ver hair flying in the breeze . Her dis­like of the gob­lin sending her to de­liv­er mes­s
“I have reached my deci­sion, Har­ry Pot­ter,” said the gob­lin . “I am not a thief, boy! I am not trying to pro­cure trea­sures to which I have no right!” .
“It was made for him, wasn't it?” “No!” cried the gob­lin, bristling with anger as he point­ed a long fin­ger at Ron . “We need to dis­cuss this, Griphook, if that's all right. Could you give us a few min­utes?” He asked Hermione .
“I don't know,” Ron said hope­less­ly . “Gob­lins have got good rea­son to dis­like wiz­ards, Ron.” Hermione said .
"Ron, he'd know the differ­ence bet­ter than we would!" said Hermione . "He's the on­ly one who re­al­ized there had been a swap!" She said qui­et­ly, "is de­spi­ca­ble. Ask for his help, then dou­ble- cross him?" Ron's ears had turned red .
“Maybe he's ly­ing,” said Har­ry, open­ing his eyes again . “Does it make a dif­fer­ence?” asked Hermione . "We'll tell him he can have the sword af­ter he’s helped us get in­to that vault," she said .
How­ev­er, Griphook had eyes for no­body but Har­ry . “Then shake,” said the gob­lin, holding out his hand . He won­dered whether those black eyes saw any mis­giv­ings in his own .
Griphook was un­ex­pect­ed­ly blood­thirsty, laughed at the idea of pain in less­er crea­tures and seemed to rel­ish the pos­si­bil­ity that they might have to hurt oth­er wiz­ards to reach the Lestranges' vault . Har­ry, Ron and Hermione were ex­am­ing the thick mud­like po­tion against the lamp­light .
Bill, Fred, George, and Mr. Weasley could no longer work . The gob­lin re­main at Shell Cot­tage so that he could ques­tion him . “Ar­ry, you saved my sis­ter's life, I do not for­get.” He said .
Har­ry said that Griphook hap­py was es­sen­tial to their plans . “We'll be off your hands soon too, Ron, Hermione, and I. We won't need to be here much longer.” She said, frown­ing at him .
Ron and Hermione were lay­ing the din­ner ta­ble in Har­ry . They grabbed two jugs of pump­kin juice and fol­lowed them . The wand­mak­er looked ex­cep­tion­al­ly frail, and he clung to Bill's arm .
Fleur drew out a worn vel­vet case, which she opened to show the wand­mak­er . The tiara sat glit­ter­ing and twin­kling in the light from the low-hung­ing lamp .
Bill and Ol­li­van­der set off in cot­tage win­dows in­to the night . The rest of them squeezed in around the ta­ble; el­bow to eil­bow and with bare­ly enough room to move, they start­ing to eat . Fleur, Har­ry no­ticed, was mere­ly playing­ing with her food; how­ev­er, Bill re­turned be­fore
“I am a were­wolf, married to Nymphado­ra Tonks, and you, the Secret- Keep­er of Shell Cot­tage, told me the ad­dress and bade me come in an emer­gen­cy!” Bill called. “Lupin,” mut­tered Bill, and wrenched it open . “We've named him Ted, af­ter Dora's fa­ther!” Her
Hermione and Fleur both squealed, “Con­grat­ula­tions!” and Ron said, “Blimey, a ba­by!” as if he had nev­er heard of such a thing be­fore . “You, yes, of course -- Do­ra quite agree, no one bet­ter --” “I -- yeah -- blimey --” Har­ry felt over­whelmed, as­ton­ished
An­drome­da says Tonks's hair started chang­ing col­or the day that she was born . He drained his gob­let, beam­ing, as Bill made to fill it again . The wind buf­fet­ed the lit­tle cot­tage and the fire leapt and crack­led .
“God­fa­ther, Har­ry!” said Bill as they walked in­to the kitchen to­geth­er . Bill pulled the door be­hind him closed, shut­ting out the still- vol­uble voic­es of the oth­ers . It hasn't been easy to get an op­por­tu­ni­ty with the cot­tage this full of peo­ple,” Bill said .
Har­ry felt a slight squirm of dis­com­fort, as though a small snake had stirred in­side him . “We are talking about a dif­ferent breed of be­ing,” said Bill . There has been fault on both sides, I would nev­er claim that wiz­ards have been in­no­cent.
All gob­lin made ob­jects are right­ful­ly theirs . They con­sid­er it rent­ed by the one who had paid the mon­ey . You saw Griphook's face when the tiara passed un­der his eyes . Har­ry won­dered whether Bill guessed more than he was letting on .
Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows CHAPTER TWENTY-SIX GRINGOTTS Their plans were made, their prepa­ra­tions com­plete; in the small­est bed­room a sin­gle long, coarse black hair lay curled in a small glass phial on the man­tel­piece . “I re­al­ly hate that thing. It feels all wrong, it doesn't work prop­er­ly for me,” said Har­
Har­ry was imag­in­ing things when it did not work as well as his own, telling him to sim­ply prac­tice . He chose not to re­peat her own advice back to her, how­ev­er, the eve of their at­tempt­ed as­sault on Gringotts felt like the wrong mo­ment to an­tag­onize her . “I miss my w
Har­ry looked down at the hawthorn wand that had once be­longed to Dra­co Mal­foy . He had been sur­prised, but pleased to dis­cov­er that it worked for him at least as well as Hermione's had done . The door of the bed­room opened and Griphook en­tered .
Hermione had been firm on this point, be­cause they would need to trans­form in Bel­la­trix be­fore they left . As they lost Perkin's old tent on the night that the Snatch­er's caught them, Bill had lent them an­oth­er one . It was now packed in­side the bead­ed bag, which Har­ry was im­pressed to learn .
Har­ry was looking for­ward to es­cap­ing the con­fine­ment of Shell Cot­tage . He was tired of trying to make sure that they were not over­heard, tired of be­ing shut in the tiny, dark bed­room . Most of all, he longed to be rid of Griphook . It had been im­pos­si­ble to de­cide how they were going to do it .
Har­ry was ex­pe­ri­enc­ing jolts of anx­iety nag­ging doubts . He kept telling him­self that their plan was good, that Griphook knew what they were fac­ing, that they were well- pre­pared for all the dif­fi­culties they were like­ly to en­counter . It was a re­lief when six o-clock ar­rived and they
Bel­la­trix Lestrange was strid­ing across the lawn to­ward them, ac­com­pa­nied by Griphook . As she walked, she was tuck­ing the small, bead­ed bag in­to the in­side pock­et of the old robes they had tak­en from Grim­mauld Place . Har­ry ached with sad­ness to think of le
Ron was to be giv­en a com­pletely fake iden­ti­ty . Mean­while Har­ry and Griphook were to be con­cealed un­der the In­vis­ibil­ity Cloak . He had a thick brown beard and mus­tache, no freckles, a short, broad nose, and heavy eye­brows .
All three glanced back at Shell Cot­tage, ly­ing dark and silent un­der the fad­ing stars, then turned and be­gan to walk to­ward the point, just be­yond the bound­ary wall, where the Fi­delius Chard stopped work­ing . Har­ry bent down and the gob­lin clam­bered on­to his back . Hermione pulled the In­vis­ibil­ity Cloak out of the
Ton, the stooped and tooth­less land­lord, was pol­ish­ing glass­es be­hind the bar counter . A cou­ple of war­locks hav­ing a mut­tered con­ver­sa­tion in the far cor­ner glanced at Hermione . “Good morn­ing,” mur­mured Tom, and as Har­ry crept past, still car­ry­ing Griphook 
Har­ry had vis­it­ed be­fore his first team at Hog­warts so many years ago . The crooked, cob­bled street was much al­tered now from the bustling place . More shops than ev­er were boarded up, though new es­tab­lish­ments ded­icated to the Dark Arts had been cre­at­ing .
Ron stood there, his wand still out­stretched and a look of shock vis­ible be­hind his beard . Their en­trance in­to Di­agon Al­ley could hard­ly have been more con­spic­uous . For a mo­ment Har­ry won­dered whether it might not be bet­ter to leave now and try to think of a dif­ferent plan .
“He's an­oth­er Death Eater!” breathed Griphook, and Har­ry si­dled side­ways to re­peat the in­for­ma­tion in­to Hermione's ear . Travers was one of the Death Eaters who had been sum­moned to Xenophilius’s house . “Well, I con­fess I am sur­prised to see you out and about, Bel­
“Some of these wand­less can be trou­ble­some,” said Hermione . “I'm a witch, sir, I'm an witch, let me prove it to you!” he said in a squeaky im­per­son­ation .
Travers ex­tend­ed two fin­gers and shook Ron's hand as though frightened of dirty­ing him­self . “I need to vis­it Gringotts,” said Hermione. “Alas, I al­so,” said Travers. “We can­not live with­out it, yet I con­fess I de­plore the ne­ces­si­ty of con­sort­
Pro­bity Probes signed Travers the­atri­cal­ly, “so crude--but so ef­fec­tive!” And set off up the steps, nod­ding left and right to the wiz­ards, who raised the gold­en rods and passed them up and down his body . The Probes, Har­ry knew, de­tect­ed spells of con­ceal­ment and hid­den mag­ical ob
Two gob­lins stood be­fore the in­ner doors, which were made of sil­ver and which car­ried the po­em warning­ing of dire ret­ri­bu­tion to po­ten­tial thieves . Har­ry looked up at it, and all of a sud­den a knife- sharp mem­ory came to him: stand­ing on this very spot on the day that he had turned eleven, the most won­der­
“I have nev­er been asked for iden­ti­fi­ca­tion be­fore!” said Hermione . “They know!” whis­pered Griphook in Har­ry's ear, “the Im­pe­ri­ous Curse!” .
The gob­lin took Bel­la­trix's wand, ex­am­ined it close­ly, and then said, “Ah, you have had a new wund made, Madam Lestrange!” Hermione mut­tered, “Im­pe­rio!” once more . “Oh yes, I see,” said Travers, looking ut­ter­ly be­wil­dered .
“Good, good! S, if you will fol­low me, Madam Lestrange,” said the old gob­lin . “I shall take you to your vault.” He ap­peared around the end of the counter, jog­ging hap­pi­ly to­ward them .
Har­ry looked back at Travers , who was still root­ed to the spot look­ing ab­nor­mal­ly va­cant . With a flick of his wand he made Travers come with them, walk­ing meek­ly in their wake as they reached the door and passed in­to the rough stone pas­sage­way be­yond .
Bogrod whis­tled to sum­mon a lit­tle cart that came trundling along the tracks to­ward them out of the dark­ness . Har­ry was sure he could hear shout­ing be­hind them in the main hall as they all clam­bered in­to it . With a jerk the cart moved off, gath­er­ing speed, slop­ing down­ward all the time .
Har­ry heard Griphook shout, “No!” but there was no brak­ing. They zoomed through it . Then, with an aw­ful lurch, the cart flipped over and they were all thrown out . “C- Cush­ion­ing Charm,” Hermione shriek, and felt him­self glide back to­ward the ground as though weight­less .
The Thief’s Down­fall seemed to have lifted his Im­perius Curse . “We need him,” said Griphook, “we can­not en­ter the vault with­out a Gringott’s gob­lin.” “Im­pe­rio!” Har­ry said again .
A gi­gan­tic drag­on was tethered to the ground in front of them, bar­ring ac­cess to four or five of the deepest vaults in the place . The beast’s scales had turned pale and flaky dur­ing its long in­car­cer­ation un­der the ground, its eyes were milk­ily pink; both rear legs bore heavy cuffs from which chains led to enor­mous pegs driv
Bogrod ac­cept­ed his meek­ly. “You know what to do,” Griphook told Har­ry, Ron, and Hermione. “It will ex­pect pain when it hears the noise. It will re­treat, and Bogrod must place his palm up­on the door of the vault.” They ad­vanced around the cor­ner again, shak­ing the Clankers, and the noise echoed off
Griphook urged Har­ry, who turned his wand to the wood, to press his hand to the door . The door of the vault melt­ed away to re­veal a cave­like open­ing crammed from floor to ceil­ing with gold­en coins and gob­lets, sil­ver ar­mor, the skins of strange crea­tures – some with long spines, oth­er with droop­ing wings .
Ron and Hermione had lit their wands too, and were now ex­am­in­ing the piles of ob­jects sur­round­ing them . As it fell, it split, be­came a show­er of gob­lets, so that a sec­ond lat­er, with a great clat­ter, the floor was cov­ered in iden­ti­cal cups rolling in ev­ery di
Ron ac­ci­den­tal­ly nudged one of the fall­en gob­lets with his foot, and twen­ty more ex­plod­ed in­to be­ing while Ron hopped on the spot . “Stand still, don’t move!” said Hermione, clutch­ing at Ron .
Ron and Hermione point­ed there wands at it too, so that the lit­tle gold­en cup sparkled in a three-way spot­light . “And how the hell are we go­ing to get up there with­out touch­ing any­thing?” asked Ron. “No use, no use!” snarled the gob­lin .
Ron and Hermione strug­gled and yelled has Har­ry thrust the sword through the han­dle of Huf­flepuff’s cup, hook­ing it on­to the blade . There was no way out ex­cept through the door, and a horde of gob­lins seemed to be ap­proach­ing on the oth­er side .
Ron and Hermione were waist deep in trea­sure, strug­gling to keep Bogrod from slip­ping be­neath the ris­ing tide . The blis­tered gob­lin emerged by de­grees, howl­ing . “Lib­er­ato­cor­pus!” yelled Har­ry, and Griphook land­ed on the sur­face of the swelling, and the sword flew out
Griphook seized the hilt of the sword and swung it high out of Har­ry’s reach . The gold­en cup, skew­ered by the han­dle on the sword’s blade was flung in­to the air . It was scald­ing his flesh but he did not re­lin­quish it .
Har­ry shoved the cup in­to his pock­et and reached up to re­trieve the sword, but Griphook was gone . He had sprint­ed for cov­er amongst the sur­round­ing gob­lins, bran­dish­ing the sword and cry­ing, “Thieves! Thieving!” He strug­gled to his feet and knew that the only way out was through .
Har­ry’s foot found the crook of its hind leg and pulled him­self up on­to its back . The scales were hard as steel; it did not seem to feel him . Ron climbed on be­hind them, and a sec­ond lat­er the drag­on became aware that it was un­tethered .
Har­ry and Ron copied her, blast­ing the ceil­ing as it strug­gled up­ward to­ward the fresh­er air . They passed the un­der­ground lake, and the great crawl­ing, snarling beast seemed to sense free­dom and space ahead of it .
Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows CHAPTER TWENTY-SEVEN THE FI­NAL HID­ING PLACE There was no means of steer­ing; the drag­on could not see where it was going­ing . Har­ry knew that if it turned sharply or rolled in midair they would find it im­pos­si­ble to cling on­to its broad back .
Ron kept swear­ing at the top of his voice, and Hermione seemed to be sob­bing . Af­ter five min­utes or so, Har­ry lost some of his im­me­di­ate dread that the drag­on was going to throw them off, for it seemed in­tent on noth­ing but get­ting as far away from its un­der­ground prison as pos­si­ble . But the ques­tion of how
The drag­on climbed steadi­ly un­til they were flying through wisps of chilly cloud . On and on they flew, over coun­try­side parceled out in patch­es of green and brown, over roads and rivers wind­ing through the land­scape like strips of mat­te and glossy rib­bon .
Ron af­ter looked down and saw deep green moun­tains and lakes, cop­pery in the sun­set . The land­scape seemed to grow larg­er and more de­tailed as he squint­ed over the side of the drag­on . He won­dered whether it had di­vined the presence of fresh wa­ter .
He slith­ered over the side of the drag­on and plum­met­ed feet­first to­ward the sur­face . He hit the wa­ter hard, plung­ing like a stone in­to a freez­ing, green, reed-filled world . It was al­ready fifty feet away, swoop­ing and gasp­ing from the depths of the lake . Har­ry, Ron and Hermione struck out for
It was the first time that he had seen them prop­er­ly since es­cap­ing from the vault . Both had an­gry red burns all over their faces and arms, and their cloth­ing was singed away in places . Har­ry pulled out three bot­tles of pump­kin juice she had brought from Shell Cot­tage . “On the down­side-” “-- no sword,” said Ron fi­nal­ly .
Har­ry's ribs ached, he felt light­head­ed with hunger . He lay back on the grass be­neath the red­den­ing sky and laughed un­til his throat was raw . “Maybe they'll be too scared to tell him!” said Hermione .
“M- my Lord... we t- tried to st- stop them... Im- im­pos­tors... broke - broke in­to the - in­To the Lestranges' vault...” He said, his voice ris­ing, a ter­ri­ble fear grip­ing him, “Tell me! What did they take?” “A...a s- small gold­en c- cup m- my Savior...” The scream of rage,
Bel­la­trix and Lu­cius Mal­foy threw oth­ers be­hind them in their race for the door, and again his wand fell . the watch­ing wiz­ards scat­tered be­fore him, ter­ri­fied, all of them, for bring­ing him this news, for hearing­ing about the gold­en cup . Could he know, had he al­ready act­ed
Lord Volde­mort had not felt it when the di­ary had been de­stroyed, but had thought that was be­cause he had no body to fall, be­ing less than ghost... No, sure­ly, the rest were safe... The oth­er Hor­crux­es must be in­tact... But he must know, must be sure... He paced the room, kick­ing aside the gob­lin's corpse as he passed, and
he must re­dou­ble pro­tec­tion around each of his Hor­crux­es . He must un­der­take alone... Which should he vis­it first, which was in most dan­ger? An old un­ease flick­ered in­side him . Pot­ter might have known some of his past mis­deeds, through the or­phan­age . It would be pru­dent to alert Snape to the fact that the boy might
Har­ry's eyes flew open as he wrenched him­self back to the present . Judg­ing by their worried looks, and by the con­tin­ued pound­ing of his scar, his sud­den ex­cur­sion in­to Volde­mort's mind had not passed un­no­tice .
“He knows and he's go­ing to check where the oth­ers are, and the last one,” he said . “I knew it. I knew it.” “What?” Ron was gap­ing at him; Hermione sat up, look­ing wor­ried .
Ron was con­cen­trat­ing on warn­ing Snape, he didn't think about ex­act­ly where it is . “We can't just go, we haven't got a plan, we need to -” Har­ry firm­ly said . "Can you imag­ine what he's going to do once he re­al­ize the ring and the lock­et are gone?
Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows CHAPTER TWENTY-EIGHT THE MISS­ING MIR­ROR Har­ry's feet touched the road . He saw the aching­ly fa­mil­iar Hogsmeade High Street: dark shop . The drag­on had drunk its fill and risen in­to the air .
a dozen cloaked and hood­ed Death Eaters dashed in­to the streets, their wands aloft . Har­ry seized his folds, but it made no at­tempt to es­cape . The Sum­mon­ing Charm had not worked on it .
Har­ry, Ron and Hermione backed as quick­ly as pos­si­ble down the near­est side street . The Death Eaters missed them by inch­es . “Let'em have free rein, they've done some­thing to keep us here, trap us - 'an de­men­tors won't kill him! The Dark Lord wants Pot­ter's life, nor his soul. He'll be eas­ier to kill
Ron and Hermione grop­ing their way along the wall trying not to make a sound . They seemed to be com­ing more quick­ly now, tak­ing those drag­ging, rat­tling breaths he de­test­ed . He could not, would not suf­fer the De­men­tor's Kiss hap­pened af­ter­ward .
The De­men­tors have re­treat­ed, the stars were pop­ping out again and the foot­steps of the Death Eaters were be­com­ing loud­er . But be­fore Har­ry in his pan­ic could de­cide what to do, there was a grind­ing of bolts near­by, a door opened on the left- side of the nar­row street .
“Stag! You id­iot - Expec­to Pa­tronum!” roared the bar­man, and he pulled out a wand . “So what? You send de­men­tors down my street, I've told you that. I'm not hav­ing it!” said Death Eater .
“If I want to put my cat out, I will, and be damned to your cur­few!” said one of the Death Eaters . “I keep my mouth shut, it's why you come here, isn't it?” roared the first Death Eater .
The Death Eaters strode back to­wards the High Street . Hermione moaned with re­lief, wove out from un­der the Cloak, and sat down on a wob­ble-legged chair . Har­ry drew the cur­tains then pulled him off him­self and Ron . The bar­man en­tered the room. “You bloody fools,” he said gruffly .
„You don't un­der­stand. There isn't much time. We've got to get in­to the cas­tle. You want­ed a lot of things,” said Aber­forth . “My broth­er Al­bus wanted ... lots of things” . He's gone where none of this can hurt him, and you don’t owe him any­thing,” said Har­ry .
"I- it's not easy, no," says Aber­forth . "Got to? Why got to? He's dead, isn't he?" he said . „You're fighting too, you're in the Or­der of the Phoenix - " "
Al­bus Dum­ble­dore was pho­to­graphed by Hermione rather timid­ly . "Is that your sis­ter? Ar­iana? “Yes.” said Aber­forth terse­ly. “Been reading­ing Ri­ta Skeeter, have you, mis­sy?”
Aber­forth met Al­bus Dum­ble­dore's gaze, so strik­ing­ly like his broth­ers . The bright blue eyes gave the same im­pres­sion that they were X- ray­ing the ob­ject of their scruti­ny . “Did he now?” said Hermione in a low voice .
Aber­forth glared at her: "Are you - are you talking about your sis­ter?" Hermione's eyes were huge in the fire­light; Ron looked slight­ly sick . He stood up, tall as Al­bus, and sud­den­ly ter­ri­ble in his anger .
Aber­forth nev­er said why he'd done it, be­cause the Min­istry had known what Ar­iana had be­come . They'd have seen her as a se­ri­ous threat to the In­ter­na­tion­al Statute of Se­cre­cy, un­balanced like she was .
Aber­forth said he could have calmed her down . Ar­iana couldn't con­trol it, but my moth­er was killed . But Har­ry won­dered how long it had been since he had spo­ken about it .
Aber­forth looked down­ward Har­ry, and it took a lit­tle imag­ina­tion to see him as a teenag­er, wiry and an­gry, con­fronting his el­der broth­er . Ar­iana, if one young girl ne­glect­ed, what did that mat­ter, when Al­bus was working­ing for the greater good?
Aber­forth's eyes were briefly oc­clud­ed by the fire­flight on his glass­es . He told me what a stupid lit­tle boy I was, trying to stand in the way of him and my brilliant broth­er . Didn't I un­der­stand, my poor sis­ter wouldn't have to be hid­den once they'd changed the world, and taught the Mug­gles their place?
Ron and Hermione were star­ing at Har­ry . He had nev­er gone in­to de­tails about what had hap­pened on the lake .
Aber­forth seemed lost in con­tem­pla­tion of his own knot­ted and veined hands . "How can you be sure, Pot­ter, that my broth­er wasn't more in­ter­est­ed in the greater good than in you?" Hermione could an­swer, "some­times you've got to think about more than your own safe­ty! This is war!"
“You- Know- Who's won, it's over, and any­one who's pre­tend­ing dif­ferent's kid­ding them­selves.” “No, it isn't,” said Har­ry . He wait­ed for Aber­forth to jeer or to ar­gue, but did not. He mere­ly moved .
A tiny white dot reap­peared at the end of the paint­ed tun­nel . Ar­iana's hair was longer than Har­ry had ev­er seen . The whole thing swang for­ward on the wall like a lit­tle door . And his hair over­grown, his face cut, his robes ripped .
Neville had spot­ted Ron and Hermione, and with yells of de­light was hug­ging them too . “Neville, what’s hap­pened to you?” Neville dis­missed his in­juries with a shake of the head .
Har­ry cham­bered up on­to the man­tel­piece and through the hole be­hind Ar­iana’s por­trait . There were smooth stone steps on the oth­er side: It looked as though the pas­sage­way had been there for years .
Peo­ple have been saying­ing you’ve just been on the run, Har­ry, but I don’t think so . “You’re right,” said Neville, the smile fad­ing from his face .
Har­ry, Ron, and Hermione’s unit­ed voic­es echoed up and down the pas­sage . “You wouldn’t have stood it ei­ther,” said Neville . Neville’s in­juries were thrown in­to even greater relief.
“Doesn’t mat­ter. They don’t want to spill too much pure blood, so they’ll tor­ture us a bit if we’re mouthy but they won’t ac­tu­al­ly kill us.” Har­ry did not know what was worse . “The on­ly peo­ple in re­al dan­ger are the ones whose friends and rel­atives on the out­side are giv­ing trou
Ron, Har­ry, Ron, and Hermione together were all the lead­ers . “No kid­ding,” mut­tered Ron as the pas­sage be­gan to slope up­ward .
“Yeah,” said Neville, pant­ing a lit­tle now, be­cause the pas­sage was climbing so steeply, “well, you can see their think­ing.” “I s’pose it was on­ly a mat­ter of time be­fore they did it the oth­er way around. Thing was,” Neville faced them, and Har­ry was as­ton­ished to see that he was grin­n
Neville pushed the door open and climbed through . He heard Har­ry call out for un­seen peo­ple: “Look who it is! Didn’t I tell you?” He had a con­fused im­pres­sion of col­ored hang­ings .
Mul­ti­col­ored ham­mocks were strung from the ceil­ing and from the bal­cony that ran around the dark wood- pan­eled and win­dow­less walls . Har­ry saw the gold Gryffind­or li­on, em­bla­zoned on scar­let; the black bad­ger of Huf­flepuff set against yel­low; and the bronze ea­gle of
Sea­mus Finni­gan’s face was bruised and puffy . “I don’t want any Car­row sup­port­ers to be able to get in’ . You’ve just got to make sure you close the loop­holes . Neville’s the man!”
Patil twins were there, as were Ter­ry Boot, Ernie Macmil­lan, An­tho­ny Gold­stein, and Michael Cor­ner . “Tell us what you’ve been up to, though,” said Ernie. “You didn’t break in­to Gringotts?” Neville said .
Neville looked at Ron and Hermione, trying to tell them with words that Volde­mort had just dis­cov­ered the loss of one of the oth­er Hor­crux­es . “We need to get go­ing,” he said, and their ex­pres­sions told him that they un­der­stood .
“Why can’t you tell us? It’s some­thing to do with fight­ing You- Know- Who, right?” Neville asked . “You don’t un­der­stand,” Har­ry said .
Ev­ery­one in here’s proven they’re loy­al to Dum­ble­dore . “Look,” Har­ry be­gan, with­out know­ing what he was going to say, but it did not mat­ter . It was Lu­na and Dean, holding up the fake Galleon .
Gin­ny gave Har­ry a ra­di­ant smile . He had nev­er ful­ly ap­preci­at­ed, how beau­ti­ful she was .
“You’ve got to stop this!” Har­ry told Neville . “We’re fight­ing, aren’t we?” Dean said. “Why can’t they help?” “What?” “They can help.” He dropped his voice and said .
Har­ry had warned him against telling any­one but Ron and Hermione about the Hor­crux­es . But Dum­ble­dore had trust­ed Snape, and where had that led? Fred and George, who had been crack­ing jokes for the ben­efit of those near­est, fell silent . “There’s some­thing we need to find,” Harry said .
“When was it lost?” asked Har­ry . “No­body’s ev­er found a trace of it, have them?” she ap­pealed to Raven­claws .
Volde­mort was fly­ing again, whether to the un­der­ground lake or here, to the cas­tle . “He’s on the move,” he said qui­et­ly to Ron and Hermione . Cho had got to her feet, but Gin­ny said rather fierce­ly, “No, Lu­na will take Har­ry, won’t you?” “Ooooh, yes, I’d like to,” said Lou­ry 
Har­ry and Lu­na hur­ried up the stair­case, lit by torch­es, and turned cor­ners in un­ex­pect­ed places . At last they reached what ap­peared to be sol­id wall . They were standing in a dark cor­ri­dor .
Har­ry and Lu­na walked, check­ing the Ma­raud­er’s Map when­ev­er light per­mit­ted, twice paus­ing to al­low a ghost to pass with­out draw­ing at­ten­tion to them­selves . “The way, Harry,” breathed, breathed his sleeve and pulled him to­ward a spi­ral stair­case . There was no han­d
Lu­na looked eerie float­ing in midair, un­con­nect­ed to arm or body . At once the beak of the ea­gle opened, but in­stead of a bird’s called, a soft, mu­si­cal voice said, “Which came first, the phoenix or the flame?”
Har­ry rec­og­nized Rowe­na Raven­claw from the bust he had seen at Hog­warts . The stat­ue stood be­side a door that led to dor­mi­to­ries above . A del­icate-looking cir­clet had been re­pro­duced in mar­ble on top of her head .
Har­ry whirled around, slipped off plinth, and land­ed on the floor . She pressed a stub­by fore­fin­ger to the skull and snake brand­ing on her fore-arm . Harry raised his wand, but the witch be­fore him was al­ready falling forward .
Lu­na hur­ried to her side and she let the Cloak fall back over them . Slow­ly they shuf­fled in around Alec­to, a sav­age beast that might wake at any mo­ment and at­tack them. Then one brave lit­tle dart­ed up to her and prod­ded her back­side with his big toe .
Amy­cus bel­lowed, shak­ing the door for all he was worth, but still it did not open . The Raven­claws were back­ing away, and some of the most frightened be­gan scam­per­ing back up the stair case to their beds . “Go and get him to open it, now!” asked Pro­fes­sor McG­ona­gall .
“Where do Vanished ob­jects go?” replied Pro­fes­sor McG­ona­gall . “Nice­ly phrased,” replied the ea­gle door knock­er, and the door swung open . The few Raven­claws who had re­mained be­hind sprint­ed for the stairs as Amy­cus burst over Alec­to .
“No she bludger­ing well won't!” bel­lowed Amy­cus . “What do you mean, 'Got Pot­ter'?” said Pro­fes­sor McG­ona­gall sharply .
“You are not going to pass off y9our many in­ep­ti­tudes on the stu­dents of Hog­warts.” “Ex­cuse me?” Amy­cus moved for­ward un­til he was of­fen­sive­ly close to Pro­fes­sor McG­ona­gall, his face with­in inch­es of hers . Har­ry pulled the Cloak off him­self, raised his
“I see what Bel­la­trix meant,” said Har­ry, the blood thun­der­ing through his brain, “you need to re­al­ly mean it.” “Pot­ter, that was fool­ish!” She strug­gled to pull her­self to­geth­er . “Oh, are we al­lowed to say the name now?” asked Lu­na with an air of in­ter­est .
Pro­fes­sor McG­ona­gall rose to her feet, point­ed her wand at the grog­gy Death Eater, and said, “Im­pe­rio.” “You must flee,” whis­pered Har­ry, “Now Pot­ter, as quick­ly as you can!” “I can’t,” “I'm sup­posed to find, and it could be the di­adem--- if
Pro­fes­sor McG­ona­gall waved her wand again, and a length of shim­mer­ing sil­ver rope ap­peared out of thin air and snaked around the Car­rows, bind­ing them tight­ly to­geth­er . “Pot­ter, are you all right.” said a voice, and Har­ry came back .
Pro­fes­sor McG­ona­gall dry­ly said: “We teach­ers are rather good at mag­ic, you know. I am sure we will be able to hold him off for a while if we all put our best ef­forts in­to it” “Let me ---” “I think so” “We're ad­vis­able to take as many in­no­cent peo­ple out of the way as
Pro­fes­sor McG­ona­gall, Har­ry, and Lu­na hur­ried back down . From the tip burst three sil­ver cats with spec­ta­cle mark­ings around their eyes . The Pa­tronus­es ran sleek­ly ahead, fill­ing the spi­ral stair­case with sil–very light .
Severus Snape stepped near­er, and his eyes flit­ted over him . Har­ry felt in the pouch around his neck for the Ma­raud­er's Map . McG­ona­gall too seemed to be­come aware of their com­pa­ny .
“Oh, but nat­ural­ly,” said Pro­fes­sor McG­ona­gall . “You Death Eaters have your own pri­vate means of com­mu­ni­ca­tion, I for­got.” Snape pre­tend­ed not to have heard her . He was mov­ing grad­ual­ly clos­er, with an air of hard­ly notic­ing what he was doing
Pro­fes­sor McG­ona­gall slashed through the air and for a split sec­ond Har­ry thought Snape must crum­ple, un­con­scious, but the swift­ness of his Shield Charm was such that Snape was thrown off bal­ance . Snape bran­dished her wand at a touch on the wall and it flew out of its brack­et . Then it was no longer
Snape strug­gled free of the crush­ing arms and sent it fly­ing back to­ward his at­tack­ers . Har­ry and Lu­na had to dive side­ways to avoid it as it smashed in­to the wall and shat­tered . “No, he's not dead,” said McG­ona­gall bit­ter­ly .
Har­ry pant­ed, mas­sag­ing his chest be­neath his emer­ald- green silk pa­ja­mas . “Our head­mas­ter is tak­ing a short break,” said Pro­fes­sor McG­ona­gall .
“You re­al­ize, that noth­ing we do will be able to keep out You- Know- Who in­def­inite­ly?” squeaked Flitwick . “But we can hold him up,” said Pro­fes­sor McG­ona­gall, and be­tween the two witches there passed a look of grim un­der­stand­ing .
“Pro­fes­sor, I'm sor­ry to in­ter­rupt, but this is im­por­tant” Har­ry felt a mix­ture of des­per­ate dis­ap­point­ment and pan­ic . “We shall meet you and your Raven­claws in the Great Hall, Fil­ius!” said Pro­tego Hor­ri­bil­lis. “A lit­tle ex­tra wis­dom
“I shall ex­pect you and the Slytherins in the Great Hall in twen­ty min­utes al­so.” Pro­fes­sor McG­ona­gall said, aghast . “Go and wake your stu­dents, Ho­race, we du­el to kill.” Har­ry did not stay to watch Slughorn splut­ter .
Filch ev­ident­ly thought Pro­fes­sor McG­ona­gall had tak­en leave of her sens­es, but hob­bled away, hunch- shoul­dered, mut­ter­ing un­der his breath . “Man the boundaries, pro­tect us, do your du­ty to our school!” shout­ed Pro­ofes-so­so Har­ry 
Har­ry and Lu­na sped back down the en­trance to the Room of Re­quire­ment . As they ran, they met crowds of stu­dents, most wear­ing cloaks over their pa­ja­mas . The room was packed, far more crowd­ed than when he had last been in there . Kings­ley and Lupin were looking up at him, as were Oliv­er Wood and Katie Bell .
Har­ry was pressed back against he wall as they ran past hi, the min­gled mem­bers of the Or­der of the Phoenix, Dum­ble­dore's Army, and Harry's old Quid­ditch team head­ing up in­to the main cas­tle . Mrs. Weasley was strug­gling with Gin­ny.
Fred and George looked slight­ly ashamed of them­selves . “I can't go home!” Gin­ny shouted, an­gry tears sparkling in her eyes . There was a scuf­fling and a great thump .
Per­cy splut­tered in­to si­lence, bro­ken by Fleur turn­ing to Lupin and say­ing, in a wild­ly trans­par­ent at­tempt to break the ten­sion . “I --- oh yes--- he's fine!” Lupin said loud­ly .
Mrs. Weasley ran for­ward, pushed Fred aside, and pulled Per­cy in­to a stran­gling hug, while he pat­ted her on the back . “What made you see sense, Perce?” in­quired George .
Gin­ny and Mrs. Weasley head­ed off to the stairs as well . Har­ry strode across the room to an open door leading­ing off the Room of Require­ment . He was looking through the high wrought-iron gates with winged boats on pil­lars at ei­ther side, looking­ing through the dark grounds .
Ev­ery eye, liv­ing and dead was fixed up­on Pro­fes­sor McG­ona­gall, who was speaking from the raised plat­form at the top of the Hall . Be­hind her stood the re­maining teach­es, in­clud­ing the palomi­no cen­taur, Firen­ze, and the mem­bers of the Or­der of the Phoenix who had ar­rived
“The im­por­tant thing is to get you out of here safe­ly.” “Where's Pro­fes­sor Snape?” shout­ed a girl from the Slytherin ta­ble . “He has, to use the com­mon phrase, done a bunk” replied Pro­Fessor McG­ona­gall . A great cheer erupt­es from the Gryffind­ors, Huf­f
“Your ef­forts are fu­tile. You can­not fight me. I do not want to kill you. I have great re­spect for the teach­ers of Hog­warts. I don’t want to spill mag­ical blood.” There was si­lence in the Hall now . Give me Har­ry Pot­ter and I shall leave the school un­touched .
Har­ry saw wands emerg­ing ev­ery­where, pulled from be­neath cloaks and from un­der sleeves . “Thank you, Miss Parkin­son.” said Pro­fes­sor McG­ona­gall in a clipped voice . The Slytherin ta­ble was com­plete­ly de­sert­ed .
A bat­tle plan has been agreed be­tween the teach­ers of Hog­warts and the Or­der of the Phoenix . Pro­fes­sors Flitwick, Sprout and McG­ona­gall are go­ing to take groups of fight­ers up to the high­est tow­ers .
“Pot­ter,” said Pro­fes­sor McG­ona­gall, hur­ry­ing up to him . “Aren't you sup­posed to be looking­ing for some­thing?” said Har­ry, “oh yeah!” He had al­most for­got­ten about the Hor­crux . The in­ex­pli­ca­ble ab­sence of Ron and Hermione had mo­men­tar­ily
Fear and pan­ic were cloud­ing his thought pro­cess­es . He tried to calm him­self, to con­cen­trate on find­ing the Hor­crux . With­out Ron and Hermione to help him he could not seem to mar­shal his ideas .
In liv­ing mem­ory... Be­neath his fin­gers, Har­ry's eyes flew open again . The sound of hun­dreds of peo­ple march­ing to­ward the Room of Require­ment grew loud­er . He saw Zacharias Smith bowl­ing over first years to get to front of the queue .
Nick's head wob­bled a lit­tle on his ruff as he turned hith­er and thith­er, peer­ing over the heads of the swarm­ing stu­dents . Har­ry looked in the di­rec­tion of Nick’s trans­parent, point­ing finger and saw a tall ghost . “hey - wait - come back!” Nick said.
Har­ry sup­posed that she was beau­ti­ful, with her waist- length hair and floor- length cloak, but looked haughty and proud . “Please, I need some help. I need to know any­thing you can tell me about the lost di­adem.” A cold smile curved her lips .
“I stole the di­adem from my moth­er,” Har­ry said . “When I lived, I was He­le­na Raven­claw.” “You must know what happed to it.” “I doubt that it would great­ly in­crease you chances of de­feat­ing the wiz­ard who calls him­self Lord -” Harry said fiercely .
“I stole the di­adem.” He­le­na Raven­claw re­peat­ed in a whis­per . “I sought to make myself clev­er­er, more im­por­tant than my moth­er. I ran away with it.” He did not know how he had man­aged to gain her con­fi­dence . She con­cealed her loss, my dread­ful be­tray
“He Bloody Baron, yes,” said the Gray La­dy . “It re­mained where I had hid­den it when I heard the Baron blun­der­ing through the for­est to­ward me,” she added bit­ter­ly .
Volde­mort had trav­eled to that far- flung for­est and re­trieved the lost di­adem from its hid­ing place . No, it had not been left in that low­ly tree . He had a place to lie low, undis­turbed, for ten years .
“He must’ve hid­den the di­adem in the cas­tle, the night he asked Dum­ble­dore to let him teach!” said Har­ry . He might’ve got the chance to nick Gryffind­or’s sword as well . It was five min­utes un­til mid­night, and though he now knew what the last Hor­crux was, he was no clos­er to dis­cov­er
“Ha­grid!” Har­ry bel­lowed, fight­ing off Fang the boarhound’s at­ten­tions . “Har­ry, yer here! Yer here!” He stooped down, be­stowed up­on Harry a cur­so­ry and rib- crack­ing hug .
“Heard You- Know- Who from up in our cave,” said Ha­grid grim­ly . “Yet got till mid­night ter gimme Pot­ter, knew that mus’ be hap­penin’. Get down, Fang. So we come ter join in, me an’ Graw­py an’ Fang .
The two stone gar­goyles that usu­al­ly guard­ed the en­trance to the staffroom had been smashed apart by a jinx that had sailed through an­oth­er bro­ken win­dow . Its ug­ly stone face made Har­ry think sud­den­ly of the mar­ble bust of Rowe­na Raven­claw at Xenophilius’s house, with the stone di
Dum­ble­dore and Flitwick, those mod­el pupils, had nev­er set foot in that par­tic­ular place . Har­ry had strayed off the beat­en track in his time at school . He was roused by Pro­fes­sor Sprout, who was thun­der­ing past fol­lowed by Neville and half a dozen oth­ers, all of them wear­ing ear­m
Har­ry forged on through the trem­bling pas­sages, his wand at the ready, and for the length of one cor­ri­dor the lit­tle paint­ed knight rushed from paint­ing to paint­side him . He sped off, with Ha­grid and Fang gal­lop­ing be­hind him, cram­ing them­selves in­to each oth­ers’ can­vas­es
Har­ry hur­tled around a cor­ner and found Fred and a small knot of stu­dents, in­clud­ing Lee Jor­dan and Han­nah Ab­bott, stand­ing be­side an­oth­er emp­ty plinth . Their wands were drawn and they were lis­ten­ing at the con­cealed hole . “Nice night for it!” Fred shout­ed as the cas­tle quaked
“I’m not deaf, the whole of Hogsmeade heard him. And it nev­er oc­curred to any of you to keep a few Slytherins hostage? There are kids of Death Eaters you’ve just sent to safe­ty . “It wouldn’t stop Volde­mort,” said Har­ry, “and your broth­er would . . have done it.” Aber­forth grunt­ed and
“It was Ron, all Ron’s idea!” said Hermione . “What the – ?” “Some­thing to get rid of Hor­crux­es,” said Ron sim­ply .
“So we’re an­oth­er Hor­crux down,” said Ron . “Ge­nius!” yelled Har­ry, though he looked de­light­ed with him­self. “So what’s new with you?” he said .
“Are there still peo­ple in the pas­sage to the Hog’s Head?” said Mrs. Long­bot­tom . “I sealed it, I think it un­wise to leave it open now Aber­forth has left his pub .
Ron and Hermione broke apart, their arms still around each oth­er . “Oi! There’s a war go­ing on here!” Ron asked weak­ly .
Har­ry saw Grawp the gi­ant me­an­dering past, swing­ing what looked like a stone gar­goyle torn from the roof and roaring his dis­plea­sure . Gin­ny saw Aber­forth again fly­ing as he led a small group of stu­dents past . “Have you seen Re­mus?” Tonks called af­ter him .
Gin­ny turned, help­less, to Har­ry, Ron, and Hermione . “Tonks, I’m sure he’s okay –“ But Tonks had run off in­to the dust af­ter Aber­forth .
“He thought he was the on­ly one,” said Har­ry . “Too bad for him I’ve had to hide stuff in my time,” he added .
“That’s my wand you’re holding, Pot­ter,” said Mal­foy . “Who’s lent you theirs?” “My moth­er,” said Dra­co. “We’re gonna be re­ward­ed,” said Har­ry .
“I vir­tu­al­ly lived in the Room of Hid­den Things all last year,” said Mal­foy . “We can do Diss- lu­sion Charms now! And then,” his face split in­to a gorm­less grin, “you turned up right in front of us and said you was looking­ing for a die- dum?” “Har­ry?” Ron’s voice echoed sud­den­ly from the o
“It’s Pot­ter the Dark Lord wants, who cares about a die- dum?” Mal­foy yelled at Crabbe . “‘Must mean’?” Crabb turned on M.M. Mal­Foy with undis­guised fe­roc­ity .
Hermione had run around the cor­ner be­hind him and sent a Stun­ning Spell straight at Crabbe’s head . It on­ly missed be­cause Mal­foy pulled him out of the way . “Don’t kill him! DON’T KILL HIM!” He yelled at Har­ry and Goyle .
Ron leapt out of sight to avoid the jet of green light . “It’s some­where here!” Har­ry yelled at her, point­ing at the pile of junk in­to which the old tiara had fall­en­en .
Mal­foy grabbed the Stunned Goyle and dragged him along; Crabbe out­stripped all of them . Har­ry, Ron, and Hermione pelt­ed along in his wake, and the fire pur­sued them. It was not nor­mal fire; it was a curse . As they turned a cor­ner the flames chased them as though they were alive, sen­tient, in­tent
Har­ry swung his leg over the sec­ond broom and threw one to Ron, who pulled Hermione on­to it be­hind him . The smoke and heat were con­sum­ing the con­tra­band of gen­er­ations of hunt­ed stu­dents, the guilty out­comes of a thou­sand banned ex­per­iments .
Goyle was too heavy and Mal­foy’s hand cov­ered in sweat, slid in­stant­ly out of Har­ry’s – “IF WE DIE FOR THEM, I’LL KILL YOU, HAR­RY!” roared Ron’s voice, and, as a great flam­ing chi­maera bore down up­on them, he and Hermione dragged goyle on­to their broom
Har­ry sped up, fol­low­ing Ron, Hermione, and Goyle through the smoke . The di­adem seemed to fall in slow mo­tion, turn­ing and glit­ter­ing as it dropped to­ward the maw of a yawn­ing ser­pent, and then caught it around his wrist . He swerved up­ward and straight to the place where, he prayed, the door stood open
“C- Crabbe” choked Mal­foy as soon as he could speak . “He’s dead,” said Ron harsh­ly . There was si­lence, apart from pant­ing and cough­ing .
A blood­like sub­stance, dark and tar­ry, seemed to be leak­ing from the di­adem . Sud­den­ly Har­ry felt the thing vi­brate vi­olent­ly, then break apart in his hands, and as it did so, he thought he heard the faintest, most dis­tant scream of pain . “I would nev­er, ev­er have dared use it, it’s so dan­ger­
Har­ry, Ron, and Hermione ran for­ward to help: Death Eaters had pen­etrat­ed Hog­warts . Fred and Per­cy had just backed in to view, both of them du­el­ing masked men . Then his hood slipped and they saw a high fore­head and streaked hair .
Fred looked at Per­cy with glee as the Death Eater he was bat­tling col­lapsed un­der the weight of three sep­arate Stun­ning Spells . Thick­nesse had fall­en to the ground with tiny spikes erupt­ing all over him; he seemed to be turning­ing in­to some form of sea urchin .
Cold air told him that the side of the cas­tle had been blown away, and hot stick­iness on his cheek told him he was bleed­ing co­pi­ous­ly . Then he heard a ter­ri­ble cry that pulled at his in­sides, that ex­pressed agony of a kind nei­ther flame nor curse could cause, and he stood up, sway­ing, more fright­ened,
Har­ry's mind was in free fall, spin­ning out of con­trol, un­able to grasp the im­pos­si­bil­ity, be­cause Fred Weasley could not be dead, the ev­idence of all his sens­es must be ly­ing . He and Ron had both grabbed Hermione and pulled her to the floor, but Per­cy lay across Fred's body, shield­ing it from fur­ther
Ron and Har­ry shouted to­geth­er; their spells col­lid­ed and the mon­ster was blown back­ward, its legs jerk­ing hor­ri­bly, and van­ished in­to the dark­ness . More gi­ant spi­ders were climbing the side of the build­ing, lib­er­at­es from the For­bid­den For­est .
Har­ry stooped to seize Fred's body un­der the armpit . Per­cy stopped cling­ing to the body and helped: to­geth­er, crouch­ing low to avoid the curs­es fly­ing at them from the grounds . He could not bear to look at Fred a sec­ond longer than he had to, and af­ter mak­ing sure that the body was well- hid­den, 
His face was con­tort­ed, smeared with dust and smoke, and he was shak­ing with rage and grief . But Har­ry knew how Ron felt: Pur­su­ing an­oth­er Hor­crux could not bring the sat­is­fac­tion of re­venge; he too want­ing to fight, to pun­ish them, the peo­ple who had killed Fred, and above all
he stood in the mid­dle of a des­olate but strange­ly fa­mil­iar room, with peel­ing pa­per on the walls and all the win­dows board­ed up ex­cept for one .
the sin­gle un­blocked win­dow re­vealed dis­tant bursts of light where the cas­tle stood, but in­side the room was dark ex­cept for a soli­tary oil lamp . He was con­fi­dent that the boy would not find the di­adem...al­though Dum­ble­dore's pup­pet had come much far­ther than he ev­er ex­pe
“If your son is dead, Lu­cius, it is not my fault. He did not come and join me, like the rest of the Slytherins,” whis­pered Mal­foy, his voice shak­ing . “Wouldn't it be...for­give me...morepru­dent to call off this bat­tle, and seek him y- your­self?"
You wish the bat­tle to cease so that you can dis­cov­er what has hap­pened to your son .“ Lord Volde­mort dropped his gaze once more to the wand in his fin­gers . It trou­bled him...and those things trou­bling him...I need him.“ .
Vodle­mort con­tin­ued to stand there, twirling the wand be­tween his fin­gers, star­ing at it . With a gasp, Har­ry pulled back and opened his yees at the same mo­ment his ears were as­sault­ed with the screech­es and cries .
He's just sent Lu­cius Mal­foy to find Snape.“ ”volde­mort's sit­ting in the Shriek­ing Shack?“ said Hermione . “He doesn't think he needs to fight,“ said Har­ry .
Hermione, Har­ry, and Ron hur­tled down the Cloak, un­able to con­trol their speed but so fast that the Death Eaters' Stun­ning Spells flew far over their heads .
The Death Eaters pur­su­ing them crum­pled against it . They shot through the con­ceal­ing tapestry at the bot­tom and spun on­to the floor . “Get back!” shouted Ron, and he, Harry, and Hermione hurled them­selves against a door .
Har­ry, ron and Hermione raised their wands at once, ready to strike . The du­el­ers were weav­ing and dart­ing so much that there was a strong like­li­hood of hurt­ing on of their own side if they cast curs­es . “ARGH!” A fist­ful of tu­bers had hit the Cloak over Ron's head .
Dean knocked the Death Eater out with a stun­ning Spell . Dolo­hov at­tempt­ed to re­tal­iate, and Par­vati shot a Body Bind Curse at him . “LET'S GO!” Har­ry yelled, and he, Ron, and Hermione gath­ered the Cloak tight­ly around them­selves . Mal­foy fell back­ward on
Har­ry di­rect­ed a Stunnning Spell to­ward the masked Death Eater . It missed but near­ly hit Neville, who had emerged from nowhere bran­dish­ing arm­fuls of Ven­omous Ten­tac­ula . Two bod­ies fell from the bal­cony over­head as they reached the ground . “NO!” shrieked Hermione, and with a deaf­en
ei­ther Har­ry or Hermione could an­swer they were bowling aside . “HA­GRID, NO!” he sprint­ed out from un­der the cloak to avoid the curs­es il­lu­mi­nat­ing the whole hall .
Ha­grid van­ished amongst the spi­ders, and with a great scur­ry­ing, a foul swarm­ing move­ment, they re­treat­ed un­der the on­slaught of spells . “HA­GRID!” Har­ry heard some­one calling­ing his own name, whether friend or foe he did not care: He was springint down the front steps in­to the dark grounds .
Har­ry re­alzied that Grawp was, in­deed, an un­der­sized gi­ant . The gar­gan­tu­an mon­ster tried­ing to crush peo­ple on the up­per floors turned around and let out a ro­rar . “DON'T!” ron grabbed Hermione's hand and tore down the steps in­to the grounds .
Har­ry's breath caught and so­lid­ified in his chest . Shapes moved out in the dark­ness, swirling fig­ures of con­cen­trat­ed black­ness . ron and Hermione closed in be­side him as the sounds of fight­ing be­hind them grew sud­den­ly mut­ing, dead­ened .
Ron saw Ron's sil­ver ter­ri­er burst in­to the air, flick­er fee­bly, and ex­pire . He saw Hermione's ot­ter twist in midair and fade, and his own wand trem­bled in his hand, and he al­most wel­comed the on­com­ing obliv­ion, the promise of noth­ing, of no feel
“That's right, Har­ry...come on think of some­thing hap­py?“ said Lu­na en­cour­ing­ly, as if they were back in the Room of Re­quire­ment and this was sim­ply spell prac­tice for the D.A.
ron shak­ily, turn­ing to Lu­na, Ernie, and Sea­mus . Har­ry shouted again, but the oth­ers need­ed no telling; They all scat­tered .
Ron yelled as the gi­ant swung its club again and its bellows echoed through the night . il­lu­mi­nate the dark­ness .
Fred and Ha­grid, and his ter­ror for all the peo­ple he loved, scat­tered in and out­side the cas­tle, must all wait, be­cause they had to run, had to reach the snake and Volde­mort . He sprint­ed, half-be­liev­ing he could out­dis­tance death it­self, ig­nor­ing the jets of light fly­ing in
Ron and Hermione caught up . “How--how's we go­ing to get in?” she asked ron .
Ron looked around, then di­rect­ed his wand at a twig on the ground and said “Winguardi­um Leviosa!” It spun through the air as if caught by a gust of wind, then zoomed at the trunk through the Wil­low's omi­nous­ly sway­ing branch­es . “Per­fect!” panted Hermione. “Wait.” For one tee­ter­ing
Har­ry wrig­gled in­to the earthy pas­sage hid­den in the tree's roots . It was a much tighter squeeze than it had been the last time they had en­tered it . They had had to dou­ble up to move throuhgh it near­ly four years pre­vi­ous­ly; now there was noth­ing for it but to crawl .
Tun­nel be­gan to slope up­ward and Har­ry saw a sliv­er of light ahead . “Put the Cloak on!” she whis­pered .
Har­ry groped be­hind him and forced the bun­dle of slip­pery cloth in­to his free hand . With dif­fi­cul­ty he dragged it over him­self, murmered, “Nox,” ex­tin­guish­ing his wan­dlight, and con­t­ued on his hands and knees . he heard voic­es com­ing from the room di­rect
Snape could see Nagi­ni, swirlign and coil­ing like a ser­pent un­der­wa­ter . He could see the edge of a ta­ble, and a long- fin­gered white hand toy­ing with wand . Snape was inch­es away from where he crouched, hid­den .
“Let me find the boy. Let me bring you Pot­ter. I know I can find him, my Lord. Please.“ Snape strode past the gap, and Har­ry drew back a lit­tle . He could see him now, see the red eyes, the flat­tened, ser­pen­tine face, the pal­lor of him gleam­ing slight­ly in the semi­darkness .
Volde­mort raised the El­der Wand, holding it as del­icate­ly and pre­cise­ly as a con­duc­tor's ba­ton . “Why doesn't it work for me, Severus?” he asked . „I do not un­der­stand. You--you have per­formed ex­traor­di­nary mag­ic with that wand...no. It has not re­ve
Har­ry lost sight of him for sec­onds as he prowled, speak­ing in that same mea­sured voice, while the pain and fury mount­ed . Volde­mort started to move around the room . Snape saw Snape's pro­file .
"You sound like Lu­cius. Nei­ther of you un­der­stands Pot­ter as I do. He does not need find­ing."
Cap­ture Pot­ter. Kill his friends--the more, the bet­ter--but do not kill him . “My Lord knows I seek on­ly to serve him. But--let me go and find the boy, my Lord. Let me bring him to you. I know I can--” Volde­mort said, and Har­ry caught the lgint of red in his eyes .
“Why did both the wands I have used fail when di­rect­ed at Har­ry Pot­ter?” “I--I can­not an­swer that, my Lord.” “Can't you?” Snape closed his eyes, and sud­den­ly he was Snape, looking­ing in­to Snape's pale face . “My wund of yew did ev­ery­thing of which I asked it, Severus, ex­
Volde­mort's dark eyes were still fixed up­on the coil­ing ser­pent in its pro­tective sphere . Snape looked at Volde-mort, and Snape's face was like a death mask . "My Lord--let me go to the boy--" "all this long night when I am on the brink of vic­to­ry, I have sat here," Volde_mort said .
Snape did not speak . "You are a clever man, af­ter all, Severus. You have been a good and faith­ful ser­vant, and I re­gret what must hap­pen." "The El­der Wand can­not serve me prop­er­ly," Snape said.
The El­der Wand be­longs to the wiz­ard who killed its last own­er . “My Lord!“ Snape protest­ed, rais­ing his wand, and I mas­ter Pot­ter at last . It did noth­ing to Sanpe, who for a split sec­ond seemed to think he had been re­prieved .
Volde­mort swept from the room with a back­ward glance, and the great ser­pent float­ed af­ter him in its huge pro­tective sphere . Back in the tun­nel and his own mind, Har­ry opened his eyes; He had drawn blood bit­ing down on his knuckles in an ef­fort not to shout out . “Har­ry!” breathed Hermione be­hind him,
Har­ry bent over him, and Snape seized the front of his robes and pulled him close . A flask, con­jured from thin air, was thrust in­to his shak­ing hand by Hermione . “Look...at....me...” he whis­pered .
Lord Volde­mort’s voice re­ver­ber­at­ed from the walls and floor . Har­ry jumped on his feet, the flask gripped tight­ly in his hands . “You have fought,” said the high, cold voice .
I shall wait for one hour in the For­bid­den For­est . If, at the end of that hour, you have not come to me, have not giv­en your­self up, then bat­tle recom­mences . This time, I shall en­ter the fray my­self, Har­ry Pot­ter, and I shall find you . “I shall pun­ish ev­ery last man, wom­an, and child who has
A lone dog lay aban­doned in front of them . There was no oth­er sign of Grawp or his at­tack­er . The flag­stones of the de­sert­ed en­trance hall were stained with blood .
Ron and Hermione walked away with a word to Har­ry . The Great Hall seemed to fly away, be­come small­er, shrink . He could not bear to look at any of the oth­er bod­ies ly­ing next to Fred .
Har­ry burst in­to the cir­cu­lar of­fice he found a change . The por­traits that hung all around the walls were emp­ty . Not a sin­gle head­mas­ter or head­mistress re­mained to see him .
A sin­gle huge chim­ney dom­inat­ed the dis­tant sky­line . Two girls were swing­ing backward and for­ward, and a skin­ny boy was watching them from be­hind a clump of bush­es . Snape looked no more than nine or ten years old, sal­low, small, stringy .
Lily had picked up a fall­en flow­er from the bush be­hind which Snape lurked . Petu­nia ad­vanced, ev­ident­ly torn be­tween cu­rios­ity and dis­ap­proval . “It’s not hurt­ing you,” said Lily, but she closed her hand on the blossom .
Petu­nia, now hov­er­ing be­side the swings, whis­pered Snape . “You’re...you’re a witch,” she turned, nose in the air, and marched off to­ward her sis­ter .
Petu­nia ev­ident­ly did not un­der­stand the word, but could hard­ly mis­take the tone . “Lily, come on, we’re leav­ing!” she said shril­ly .
Lily had picked up a fall­en twig and twirled it in the air . Har­ry knew that she was imag­in­ing sparks trail­ing from it . “It’s re­al, isn’t it?” whis­pered Lily .
Lily whis­pered, brim­ful of con­fi­dence in his des­tiny . “Does it make a dif­fer­ence, be­ing Mug­gle- born?” Lily said . Lily had been wor­ry­ing. “You’ve got loads of mag­ic,” said Snape .
“Oh yes, they’re ar­gu­ing,” said Snape . “Doesn’t your dad like mag­ic?” “He doesn’t like any­thing, much,” a lit­tle smile twist­ed Snape’s mouth when she said his name .
Lily stag­gered back­ward and burst in­to tears . Petu­nia looked both de­fi­ant and scared. “You did! You hurt her!” Lily ran from the lit­tle thick­et, off af­ter her sis­ter, and Snape looked mis­er­able and con­fused... And the scene re- formed. Har­ry looked around. He was on plat­form nine and three quar­
“Maybe once I’m there, I’ll be able to go to Pro­fes­sor Dumble­dore and per­suade him to change his mind!” Petu­nia dragged her hand back out of her sis­ter’s grasp . “You think I want to go...to some stupid cas­tle and learn to be a – a...” Lily’s eyes filled with tears .
Lily looked back at her sis­ter, and her voice was low and fierce . “You didn’t think it was such a freak’s school when you wrote to the head­mas­ter and begged him to take you.” Petu­nia turned scar­let. “I saw his re­ply. It was very kind.” Lily gave her­self away by half-glanc­ing to­ward where Snape stood .
Hog­warts Ex­press hur­ry­ing along the cor­ri­dor as it clat­tered through the coun­try­side . Snape had per­haps tak­en the first op­por­tu­ni­ty to take off his dread­ful Mug­gle clothes . At last he stopped, out­side an com­part­ment in which row­dy boys were talking­ing
“Who wants to be in Slytherin? I think I’d leave, wouldn’t you?” James asked the boy loung­ing on the seats op­po­site him . Sir­ius grinned. “Maybe I’ll break the tra­di­tion. Where are you head­ing, if you’ve got the choice?” James lift­ed an in­vis­ible sword .
Lily sat up, rather flushed, and looked from James to Sir­ius in dis­like . “Come on, Severus, let’s find an­oth­er com­part­ment.” “Oooooo...” James tried to trip Snape as he passed. “See ya, Sniv­el­lus!” a voice called, as the door slammed... And the scene dis­solved once more... Har­ry
Severus Snape moved off to the oth­er side of the Hall, away from Lily, to where the Slytherins were cheer­ing him . Lily and Snape were walking across the cas­tle court­yard, ev­ident­ly ar­gu­ing . Har­ry hur­ried to catch up with them, to lis­ten in .
“I’m just trying to show you they’re not as won­der­ful as ev­ery­one seems to think they are,” said Snape . “You’re be­ing re­al­ly un­grate­ful. I heard what hap­pened the oth­er night. You went sneak­ing down that tun­nel by the Whomp­ing Wil­low. You think he was playing the hero? He was sav­
Lily’s bright green eyes were slits . Snape’s bit­ter­ness and dis­like were ren­der­ing him in­co­her­ent . Mul­ciber’s and Av­ery’s idea of hu­mor is just evil .
Har­ry watched as Snape left the Great Hall af­ter sitting his O.W.L. in De­fense Against the Dark Arts . He watched as he wan­dered away from the cas­tle and strayed in­ad­ver­tent­ly close to the place be­neath the beech tree where James, Sir­ius, Lupin, and Pet­ti­grew sat to­geth­er . But Har­
“I’ve made excus­es for you for years. None of my friends can un­der­stand why I even talk to you. You don’t even de­ny that’s what you’re all aim­ing to be!” Lily opened his mouth, but closed it with­out speak­ing . “No – lis­ten, I didn’t mean – to call me Mud­blood? But you call ev­ery­one of my birth Mud
Snape had dropped to his knees and his wand had flown out of his hand . He stood be­fore Snape with his robes whip­ping around him . “No – no mes­sage – I’m here on my own ac­count!” Snape wring­ing his hands .
“You know what I mean! He thinks it means her son, he is go­ing to hunt her down – kill them all – ” Lord Volde­mort will spare her? “You dis­gust me,” said Dum­ble­dore . “You do not care, then, about the deaths of her hus­band and child? They can die, as long as you have what you want?” Snape said .
Snape was slumped for­ward in a chair and Har­ry stood over him . He looked like a man who had lived a hun­dred years of mis­ery since leav­ing the wild hill­top . “She and James put their faith in the wrong per­son,” said Dum­ble­dore .
“You know how and why she died. Make sure it was not in vain. Help me pro­tect Lily’s son.” “The Dark Lord will re­turn, and Har­ry Pot­ter will be in ter­ri­ble dan­ger when he does.” There was a long pause, and slow­ly Snape re-gained con­trol of him­self, mas­tered his own breath­ing . “This must be be­t
“You see what you expect to see, Severus,” said Dum­ble­dore . “Oth­er teach­ers re­port that the boy is mod­est, lik­able, and rea­son­ably tal­ent­ee­ed.” Snape looked side­ways at Dumble­denore’s crooked-nosed pro­file .
Snape was mut­ter­ing in­can­ta­tions, point­ing his wand at the wrist of the hand, while Snape tipped a goblet full of thick gold­en po­tion down Dum­ble­dore’s throat . “Why did you put on that ring? It car­ries a curse, sure­ly you re­al­ized that?” Snape said .
Snape hes­itat­ed, and then said, “I can­not tell. Maybe a year. There is no halt­ing such a spell for­ev­er. It will spread even­tu­al­ly, it is the sort of curse that strength­ens over time.” Snape fu­ri­ous­ly.
“I re­fer to the plan Lord Volde­mort is revolv­ing around me.” Snape looked ut­ter­ly per­plexed . Har­ry could tell that he want­ed to say more on the sub­ject of Dum­ble­dore’s cursed hand . “The Dark Lord does not ex­pect Dra­co to suc­ceed. This is mere­ly pun­ish­ment for Lu­ciu
“I am con­cerned less for my­self than for ac­ci­dental vic­tims of what­ev­er schemes might oc­cur to the boy,” Snape asked. “Are you in­tend­ing to let him kill you?” “Cer­tain­ly not. You must kill me.” There was a long silence, bro­ken on­ly by an odd click­ing noise .
“I dare­say the mo­ment will present it­self in due course,” said Snape rough­ly . “That boy’s soul is not yet so dam­aged,” said Dum­ble­dore .
Snape and Dumble­dore were strolling to­geth­er in the de­sert­ed cas­tle grounds by twi­light . “Why? You aren’t trying­ing to give him more de­ten­tions, Severus?” Snape asked abrupt­ly .
Lord Volde­mort fears that con­nec­tion, said Dum­ble­dore . “I don’t un­der­stand.” “I do it ex­treme­ly well.” “Af­ter you have killed me, Severus – ” He said .
“You refuse to tell me ev­ery­thing, yet you ex­pect that small ser­vice of me!” Snape looked an­gry, muti­nous . “Come to my office tonight, Severus, at eleven, and you shall not com­plain that I have no con­fi­dence in you...” Snape sighed .
Lord Volde­mort stops sending a snake forth to do his bid­ding, but keeps it safe be­side him un­der mag­ical pro­tec­tion, then, I think, it will be safe to tell Har­ry.” “Tell him what?” Dum­ble­dore took a deep breath and closed his eyes .
Dum­ble­dore opened his eyes. Snape looked hor­ri­fied . “You have kept him alive so that he can die at the right mo­ment?” Snape said. “I have spied for you and lied for you, put myself in mor­tal dan­ger for you.”
Har­ry saw Snape talk­ing to the por­trait of Dum­ble­dore be­hind his desk . You will have to give Volde­mort the cor­rect date of Harry’s de­par­ture from his aunt and un­cle’s . Try Con­fund­ing Mundun­gus Fletch­er .
“You will sug­gest to the Or­der of the Phoenix,” Snape mur­mured, “that they use de­coys. Polyjuice Po­tion. Iden­ti­cal Pot­ters. It’s the on­ly thing that might work.” “You un­der­stand?” “I un­de­stand,” mur­med Mundun­gus, his eyes un­fo­cused... Now Har­ry was flying along­side Snape on 
Snape ap­proached the por­trait of Dum­ble­dore and pulled at its side . It swung for­ward, re­veal­ing a hid­den cav­ity be­hind it from which he took the sword of Gryffind­or . Snape stood again in the head­mas­ter’s study as Phineas Nigel­lus came hur­ry­ing in­to his por­
Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows CHAPTER THIRTY-FOUR THE FOR­EST AGAIN Fi­nal­ly, the truth. Ly­ing with his face pressed in­to the dusty car­pet of the of­fice where he had once thought he was learning the se­crets of vic­to­ry, Har­ry un­der­stood at last that he wasn’t sup­posed to sur­vive .
Ter­ror washed over him as he lay on the floor, with that fu­ner­al drum pound­ing in­side him . But it did not oc­cur to him now to try to es­cape, to out­run Volde­mort . If he could on­ly have died like Hed­wig, so quick­ly he would not have known it had hap­pened! Or if he had launched him­self in front
nev­er ap­pre­ci­at­ed what a mir­acle he was, brain and nerve and bound­ing heart? It would all be gone or at least, he would be gone from it . Har­ry had sim­ply been too fool­ish to see it, but he re­al­ized that now . He saw that his life span had al­ways been de­ter­mined by how long it took to elim­
Dum­ble­dore knew that Har­ry would not let any­one else die for him now that he had dis­cov­ered it was in his pow­er to stop it . The snake sur­vived. One Hor­crux remained to bind Volde­mort to the earth . True, that would mean an eas­ier job for some­body . He won­dered who would do it, of course . That would have
Ron and Hermione seemed a long way away, in a far-off coun­try . He felt as though he had part­ed from them long ago . The Cloak was, as ev­er, im­pen­etra­ble, per­fect, and he reached the front doors eas­ily .
Neville leaned against the door frame for a mo­ment and wiped his fore­head with the back of his hand . Then he set off on the steps again in­to the dark­ness to re­cov­er more bodies . Har­ry moved to Neville, who was bend­ing over an­oth­er body .
Lis­ten --- Neville ---“ “Har­ry!” Neville looked sud­den­ly scared . “Course not . . this is some­thing else. But I might be out of sight for a while. You know Volde­mort’s snake. Neville? He’s got a huge snake .
Neville seized his wrist as Har­ry made to move on . “You’re okay, are you?” Neville said . The suf­fo­cat­ing feel­ing ex­tin­guished the end of the sen­tence .
Hog­wards was the first and best home he had known . He and Volde­mort and Snape, the aban­doned boys, had all found home here . There were no lights, no sound of Fang scrabbling at the door .
A swarm of de­men­tors was glid­ing amongst the trees; he could feel their chill . He could no longer con­trol his own trem­bling. It was not, af­ter all, so easy to die . To think that peo­ple had years and years, time to waste, so much time it dragged, and he was cling­ing to each sec­ond .
The Res­ur­rec­tion Stone had cracked down the ver­ti­cal line rep­re­sent­ing the El­der Wand . It did not mat­ter about bring­ing them back, for he was about to join them . He closed his eyes and turned the stone over in his hand three times . They were nei­ther ghost nor tru­ly flesh, he could see that .
Sir­ius loped with an easy grace, his hands in his pock­ets and a grin on his face . He looked hap­py to be back in this fa­mil­iar place scene of so many ado­les­cent wan­derings . Lily’s smile was widest of all. She pushed her long hair back as she drew clos­er to him . “You’ve
“Sorry I will nev­er know him . I was trying to make a world in which he could live a hap­pi­er life.” He knew that it would have to be his de­ci­sion . “They won’t be able to see you?” asked Sir­ius .
His body and mind felt odd­ly dis­con­nected now, his limbs work­ing with­out con­scious in­struc­tion, as if he were pas­sen­ger, not driv­er, in the body he was about to leave . The dead who walked be­side him through the for­est were much more re­al to him now than the liv­ing back at the cas­tle .
A fire burned in the mid­dle of the clear­ing, and its flick­er­ing light fell over a crowd of com­plete­ly silent, watch­ful Death Eaters . Two gi­ants sat on the out­skirts, cast­ing mas­sive shad­ows over the scene, their faces cru­el, rough- hewn like rock . Har­ry saw Fen­rir, skulk
Ev­ery eye was fixed up­on Volde­mort, who stood with his head bowed, and his white hands fold­ed over the El­der Wand in front of him . He might have been praying, or else count­ing silent­ly in his mind, and Har­ry, stand­ing still on the edge of the scene . The great snake Nagi­ni float­ing in her glit­ter­ing, charmed cage .
Volde­mort said it as loud­ly as he could . The Res­ur­rec­tion Stone slipped from be­tween his numb fingers . He saw his par­ents, Sirius, and Lupin van­ish as they stepped for­ward in­to the fire­light .
Bel­la­trix looked ea­ger­ly from Volde­mort to Har­ry, her breast heav­ing . He knew that the snake was too well pro­tect­ed, knew that if he man­aged to point the wand at Nagi­ni, fifty curs­es would hit him first . “The Boy Who Lived.” None of the Death Eaters moved. They were wait­ing: Ev­ery­thing was waiting
Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows CHAPTER THIRTY-FIVE KING’S CROSS He lay face­down, lis­ten­ing to the si­lence. He was not per­fect­ly sure that he was there him­self. There­fore he had a sense of touch, and the thing against which he lay ex­ist­ed too . In open­ing them, he won­dered whether, as he could feel
Cloudy va­por had not yet formed in­to sur­round­ings . The floor on which he lay seemed to be white, nei­ther warm nor cold, but sim­ply there, a flat, blank some­thing on which to be . He sat up. His body ap­peared un­scathed. He touched his face. He was not wear­ing glass­es any­more. It was a piti
Har­ry turned slow­ly on the spot, and his sur­round­ings seemed to in­vent them­selves be­fore his eyes . He had spot­ted the thing that was mak­ing the nois­es . It had the form of a small, naked child, curled on the ground, its skin raw and rough, flayed- look­ing .
“You won­der­ful boy. You brave, brave man. Let us walk.” Stunned, Har­ry fol­lowed as Dum­ble­dore strode away from where the flayed child lay whim­per­ing . “But you’re dead,” said Dumble­denore, smil­ing still more broad­ly. “On the whole, dear boy, I think not.”
Dum­ble­dore nod­ded still more en­thu­si­as­ti­cal­ly, urg­ing Har­ry onward . “Oh yes!” said Dumble­denore. “What is that, Pro­fes­sor?”
“I think you know,” said Dum­ble­dore. “Think back. Remem­ber what he did, in his greed and his cru­el­ty.” He let his gaze drift over his sur­round­ings . “He took your blood and re­built his liv­ing body with it!” said Har­ry. “I live . . while he lives? But I thought it was the oth­er way around! I thought .
He left more than his body be­hind. He left part of him­self latched to you, the would- be vic­tim who had sur­vived . Of house- elves and chil­dren’s tales, of love, loy­al­ty, and in­no­cence, Volde­mort knows and un­der­stands noth­ing. That they all have a pow­er be­yond his
Lord Volde­mort has jour­neyed to­geth­er in­to realms of mag­ic hith­er­to un­known and untest­ed . But here is what I think hap­pened, and it is un­prece­dent­mented, and no wand­mak­er could, I think, ev­er have pre­dict­ing or ex­plained it .
Lord Volde­mort took a part of your moth­er’s sacrafice in­to him­self . If he could on­ly have un­der­stood the pre­cise and ter­ri­ble pow­er, he would not, per­haps, have dared to touch your blood . But then, if he had been able to un–der­stand, . might nev­er have mur
Lord Volde­mort has nev­er been able to do. Your courage won, your wand over­pow­ered his. And in do­ing so, some­thing hap­pened be­tween those wnds . You rec­og­nized a man who was both kin and mor­tal en­emy . It re­gur­gi­tat­ed some of his own mag­ic against him, mag­
Har­ry sat in thought for a long time, or per­haps sec­onds . “He failed to kill you with my wand,” Dum­ble­dore cor­rect­ed . "I do not min­imize your suf­fer­ings, which I am sure were se­vere," he said .
“My dear boy, I have no idea. This is, as they say, your par­ty.” Har­ry had no idea what this meant; Dum­ble­dore was be­ing in­fu­ri­at­ing . “Can you for­give me for not trust­ing you? For not telling you?” he said . He looked fleet­ing­ly like a small boy caught in wrong­do­ing, much less .
Dum­ble­dore turned his whole body to face Har­ry, and tears still sparkled in the bril­liant­ly blue eyes . “Of course – how can you ask that? You nev­er killed if you could avoid it!”
“I think it more like­ly that the Peverell broth­ers were sim­ply gift­ed, dan­ger­ous wiz­ards who suc­ceed­ing in cre­at­ing those pow­er­ful ob­jects,” said Dum­ble­dore . “The Cloak, as you know now, trav­eled down through the ages, fa­ther to son, moth­er to 
James had shown it to me just a few days pre­vi­ous­ly . It ex­plained much of his un­detect­ed wrongdo­ing at school . He asked to bor­row it, to ex­am­ine it . I had long since giv­en up my dream of unit­ing the Hal­lows, but I could not re­sist .
Dum­ble­dore looked di­rect­ly in­to Har­ry’s eyes again . “I was gift­ed, I was bril­liant. I want­ing to shine.” He said, and pain crossed the face .
Gellert Grindel­wald and I, the glo­ri­ous young lead­ers of the rev­olu­tion . I con­fess, it meant the lift­ing of all re­spon­si­bil­ity from my shoul­ders.
nev­er dis­cussed the Cloak much, Har­ry . Both of us could con­ceal our­selves well enough with­out it . The true mag­ic of which is that it can be used to pro­tect and shield oth­ers as well as its own­er .
Ar­iana . af­ter all my moth­er’s care and cau­tion . now sprang in­to ter­ri­ble be­ing . Har­ry reached out and was glad to find that he could touch him . “Well, Grindel­wald fled, as any­one but I could have pre­dict­ed. He vanished, with his plans for seiz­ing pow­er, and his schemes for Mug­
Dum­ble­dore heav­ily: “I am not so sure. I had proven, as a very young man, that pow­er was my weak­ness and my temp­ta­tion. It is a cu­ri­ous thing, Har­ry, but per­haps those who have lead­er­ship thrust up­on them, and find to their own sur­prise that they wear it well . “I was safer at Hog­wart
Har­ry did not ask whether Dum­ble­dore had ev­er found out who struck Ar­iana dead . At last he knew what Dum–ble­denore would have seen when he looked in the mir­ror of Erised . They sat in si­lence for a long time, and the whip­mer­ings of the crea­ture be­hind them bare­ly dis­turbed Harry any­more.
“I was such a fool, Har­ry. Af­ter all those years I had learned noth­ing. I was un­wor­thy to unite the Death­ly Hal­lows, I had proved it time and again, and here was fi­nal proof.” “Why?” said Harry. “What’s wrong with that?
Har­ry was fit to own the El­der Wand, and not boast of it . I was per­mit­ted to tame and use it, be­cause I took it out of vain cu­ri­ousi­ty . The stone I would have used in an at­tempt to drag back those who are at peace, rather than en­able my self- sacrafice .
Har­ry is the true mas­ter of death, be­cause he does not seek to run away from Death . He ac­cepts that he must die, and un­der­stands that there are far, far worse things in the liv­ing world than dy­ing . I doubt he woul dhave been in­ter­est­ed in any ex­cept the first .
Volde­mort was afraid that you had con­quered him by su­pe­ri­or skill . But the bor­rowed wand did no bet­ter against yours! He be­lieves that the El­der Wand re­moves his last weak­ness and makes him tru­ly in­vin­ci­ble. Poor Severus .
“I’ve got to go back, haven’t I?” Dum­ble­dore smiled at him . “I think that if you choose to re­turn, there is a chance that he may be finished for good. I can­not promise it. But I know this, Har­ry, that you have less to fear from re–turn­ing here than he does.” “Do not pity the dead. Pity the liv­ing, and above all
Har­ry knew that he was head­ing back to pain and fear of loss . He stood up, and Dum­ble­dore looked for a long mo­ment in­to each oth­er’s faces . “Is this re­al? Or has this been hap­pen­ing in­side my head?” he said .
Har­ry al­lowed his oth­er sens­es to ex­plore his predica­ment . He knew that his wand was still stowed be­neath his robes be­cause he could feel it pressed be­tween his chest and the ground . Sev­er­al peo­ple were back­ing away from the same spot .
Har­ry pic­tured Bel­la­trix with­draw­ing a help­ful hand . “Is Dra­co alive? Is he in the cas­tle?” Volde­mort said . He could hear the wom­an's fast breath­ing, her pounding of life against his ribs .
Nar­cis­sa Mal­foy called to the watch­ers . Now they yelled in tri­umph and stamped their feet . Har­ry saw bursts of red and sil­ver light shoot in­to the air in cel­ebra­tion .
He was thrown once, twice, three times in­to the air . His glass­es flew off and he felt his wand slide a lit­tle be­neath his robes . He kept him flop­py and life­less, and when he fell no ground, the clear­ing echoed with jeers and shrieks .
Branch­es caught at Har­ry's hair and robes, but he lay qui-es­cent, his mouth lolling open, his eyes shut, and in the dark­ness . The two gi­ants crashed along be­hind the Death Eaters; they made so much din that birds toes shriek­ing in­to the sky .
Some of the Death Eaters called in­sults at the cen­taurs as they left them be­hind . A lit­tle lat­er, Har­ry thought that Volde­mort must have obeyed Volde_mort's com­mand, be­cause he lurched . Some­one passed close by, and he knew that it was his own sur­vival . There must be no more war .
Volde­mort was so close to him that Har­ry did not dare open his eyes again . He saw him strid­ing in front of them, wear­ing the great snake Nagi­ni around his shoul­ders, now free of her en­chant­ed cage . But he knew that they were ap­proaching the cas­tle and strained his ears to dis­tin­guish, above the glee­ful voic
McG­ona­gall squint­ed again for a sin­gle sec­ond and saw the open door­way fill­ing with peo­ple . He saw Volde­mort stand­ing a lit­tle in front of him, stroking Nagi­ni's head with a white fin­ger . The crowd of sur­vivors took up the cause, scream­ing and yelling abuse at the Death Eather
Har­ry felt him strid­ing back­ward and for­ward right be­side the place where he lay . “He beat you!” yelled Ron, and the charm broke . "He was killed while trying­ing to sneak out of the cas­tle grounds," said Volde­mort .
Neville Long­bot­tom was strug­gling back to his feet, un­armed and un­proc­tect­ed . "You show spir­it and brav­ery, and you come of no­ble stock. You will make a very valu­able Death Eater," said Neville . Volde­mort's Si­lenc­ing Charms seemed un­able to hold .
Volde­mort shook the mildewed ob­ject by its point­ed end and it dan­gled, emt­py and ragged: the Sort­ing Hat . There will be no more Hous­es at Hog­warts School . The Death Eaters raised their wands, holding the fight­ers at bay .
Grawp came lum­ber­ing around the side of the cas­tel and yelled, “HAG­GER!” His cry was an­swered by roars from Volde­mort's gi­ants . Then came hooves and the twangs of bows, and ar­rows were sud­den­ly falling amongst the Death Eaters . Har­ry pulled the In­vis­ibilty Cloak from in­side
Neville sliced off the great snake's head, which spun high in­to the air, gleam­ing in the light flood­ing from the en­trance hall . Volde­mort's mouth was open in a scream of fury that no­body could hear . Hid­den be­neath the In­vis­ibilty Cloak, Har­ry cast a Shield Charm be­tween Neville and Volde_mort be
Har­ry saw great winget creat­ues soar­ing the heads of Volde­mort's gi­ants scratch­ing at their eyes while Grawp punched and pum­meled them . Now the wiz­ards, de­fend­ers of Hog­warts and Death Eaters alike were be­ing forced back in­to the cas­tle .
Har­ry saw Char­lie Weasly over­tak­ing Ho­race Slughorn . The house- elves of Hog­warts swarmed in­tot he en­trance hall with a great clat­ter of hooves . They were hack­ing and stab­bing at the an­kles and shim of Death Eaters their tiny faces alive with mal­ice .
Har­ry saw Yax­ley slammed tot he floor by George and Lee Jor­dan, saw Dolo­hov fall with a scream at Flitwick's hands, saw Walden Mac­nair thrown across the room by Ha­grid, and slide un­con­scious to the ground . Aber­forth Stun­ning Rook­wood, Arthur and Per­cy floot­ing Thick­nesse, and Lu
Hermione, Gin­ny and Lu­na all bat­tling their hardest, but Bel­la­trix was equal to them . Har­ry's at­ten­tion was di­vert­ed as a Killing Curse shot . Mrs. Weasley threw off her cloak as she ran, free­ing her arms .
Bel­la­trix, Mol­ly, and Har­ry stood, in­vis­ible, torn be­tween both, want­ing to at­tack and yet to pro­tect, un­able to be sure that he would not hit the in­no­cent . “When Mum­my's gone the same way as Fred­die?” screamed Mrs. Weasley. “You - will - nev­er - touch -
Har­ry saw McG­ona­gall, Kings­ley and Slughorn blast­ing backward . He saw Volde­mort's fury at the fall of his last, best leu­tenant ex­plod­ed with the force of a bomb . The crowd was afraid, and si­lence fell abrupt­ly and com­plete­ly . “This isn't how he works, is it? It's got to be me,” Har­
“One of us?” jeered Volde­mort, and his wholy body was taut and his red eyes stared, a snake that was about to strike . “You think it will be you, do you, the boy who has sur­vived by ac­ci­dent, and be­cause Dum­ble­dore was pulling the strings?” asked Har­ry . They were still mov­ing side­ways, both of them, in that per­fect
“I've done what my moth­er did. They're pro­tect­ed from you, Rid­dle, do you?” Volde­mort did not speak, but powled in a cir­cle, and Har­ry knew that he kept him tem­porar­ily mes­ized at bay, held back by the faintest pos­si­bil­ity he might in­deed know a fi­nal se­cret
“If it is not love that will save you this time,” said Volde­mort . “You must be­lieve that you have mag­ic that i do not, or else a weapon more pow­er­ful than mine?” he said .
“Yes, Dum­ble­dore is dead,” said Har­ry, “but you didn't have him killed.” “What chldish dream is this?” said Volde­mort, but still did not strike . “Snape's Pa­tronus was a doe, be­cause he loved her for near­ly all of his life, from the time when they were chil­dren. You should have re­al­ized,” Volde
Dum­ble­dore was al­ready dy­ing when Snape fin­ished him!” shrieked Volde­mort, who had fol­lowed ev­ery word with rapt at­ten­tion . “I crushed them as I crushed your moth­er, Snape's sup­posed great love! Oh, but it all makes sense, Pot­ter, and in ways that you do not un­der­stand .
Volde­mort’s hand was trem­bling on the El­der Wand, and Har­ry gripped Dra­co’s very tight­ly . The mo­ment, he knew, was sec­onds away . “That wand still isn’t work­ing prop­er­ly for you be­cause you mur­dered the wrong per­son.” “He killed --- .
Dum­ble­dore in­stend­ed to die, un­de­feat­ing, the wand’s last true mas­ter! Snape nev­er re­al­iz­ing ex­act­ly what he had done, or that the world’s most dan­ger­ous wund had giv­en him its al­le­giance!
Volde­mort’s chest rose and fell rapid­ly, and Har­ry could feel the curse com­ing, feel it build­ing in­side the wand point­ed at his face . “But what does it mat­ter?” he said soft­ly .
Har­ry saw Volde­mort’s green jet meet his own spell, saw the El­der Wand fly high, dark against the sun­rise, spin­ning across the en­chant­ed sky above them . The light hit both of their faces at the same time, so that the flam­ing blur was sud­den­ly . He stood with two wands in his hand, star­ing down at his .
Har­ry could not hear a word that any­one was shout­ing, not tell whose hands were seiz­ing him, pulling him, try­ing to hug some part of him, hun­dreds of them press­ing in, all of them de­ter­mined to touch the Boy Who Lived, the rea­son it was over at last .
Har­ry was an in­dis­pen­si­ble part of the min­gled out­pourings of ju­bi­la­tion and mourn­ing, of grief and cel­ebra­tion . They want­ed him there with them, their lead­er and sym­bol, their sav­ior and their guide, and that he craved the com­pa­ny of on­ly a few of them,
McG­ona­gall had re­placed House ta­bles, not no­body was sitting ac­cord­ing to House any­more . All were jum­bled to­geth­er, teach­ers and pupils, ghosts and par­ents . Af­ter a while, ex­haust­ed and drained, Har­ry found him­self sitting on a bench be­side Lu­na .
He spot­ted Gin­ny two ta­bles away; she was sitting with her head on her moth­er’s shoul­der . He saw Neville, the sword of Gryffind­or ly­ing be­side his plate as he ate . Ev­ery­where he looked, he saw fam­ilies re­unit­ed, and fi­nal­ly, she saw the two whose com­p
Ron and Hermione had stuck with him for so long, and de­served the truth . They had not even be­gun to ex­press all their shock and amaze­ment . The gar­goyle guarding the en­trance to the head­mas­ter’s study had been knocked aside .
Har­ry had eyes on­ly for the man who stood in the largest por­trait di­rect­ly be­hind the head­mas­ter’s chair . Tears were slid­ing down from the half moon spec­ta­cles in­to the long sil­ver beard, and the pride and the grat­itude em­anat­ing from him filled him .
Har­ry chose his words with enor­mous care at Dum­ble­dore, how­ev­er . “My dear boy, I do,” he be­gan, while his fel­low pic­tures looked con­fused and cu­ri­ous .
“I know it’s pow­er­ful,” said Har­ry weari­ly. “But I was hap­pi­er with mine. So..” He rum­maged in the pouch hung around his neck, and pulled out the two halves of hol­ly tstill just con­nect­ed by the finest threat of phoenix feath­er . “I’m putting the El­der Wand,” he told Dumble­dore
“I think Har­ry’s right,” said Hermione qui­et­ly . “That wand’s more trou­ble than it’s worth,” said Har­RY . „I want to go now!” said Lily.
Al­bus asked his par­ents im­me­di­ate­ly, cap­ital­iz­ing on the mo­men­tary ab­sence of his broth­er . “There's noth­ing wrong with that. He might be in Slytherin!” said Gin­ny .
In­dis­tinct fig­ures were swarm­ing through the mist, in­to which James had al­ready dis­ap­peared . Al­bus emerged on­to plat­form nine and three- quar­ters, which was ob­scured by thick white steam that was pour­ing from the scarlet Hog­warts Ex­press . “We'll find them,” said Gin­ny sud­den­ly .
Ron whis­pered to Har­ry as to­geth­er they lift­ed Al­bus's trunk and owl on­to the train . Lily and Hugo laughed, but Rose looked solemn . The steam had thinned for a mo­ment, and three peo­ple stood in sharp re­lief .
Dra­co Mal­foy caught sight of Har­ry, Ron, Hermione, and Gin­ny star­ing at him . “Make sure you beat him in ev­ery test, Rosie. Thank God you in­her­it­ed your moth­er's brains.” “You're right, sor­ry,” said Ron .
Gin­ny said he'd come to see her off! He's snog­ging her!” James added as though wor­ried he had not made him­self clear . “I don't mind shar­ing with Al--Ted­dy could have my room!” said Har­ry firm­ly .
Thes­trals are noth­ing to wor­ry about,” Har­ry told Al­bus . “You won't be going up to school in the car­riages, you'll be going­ing in the boats,” Harry said .
Al­bus jumped in­to the car­riage and gin­ny closed the door be­hind him . A great num­ber of faces seemed to be turned to­ward Har­ry . “Don't let it wor­ry you,” said Ron .
Har­ry kept smil­ing and wav­ing, even though it was like a lit­tle be­reave­ment . The last trace of steam evap­orat­ed in the au­tumn air .
