The Other Minister It was near­ing mid­night and the Prime Min­is­ter was sitting­ing alone in his of­fice . He was waiting for a call from the President of a far distant coun­try, and be­tween won­der­ing when the wretched man would tele­phone, and trying­ing to sup­press un­pleas­ant mem­ories of what had been a very long, tir­ing,
The Prime Min­is­ter felt it him­self; peo­ple re­al­ly did seem more mis­er­able than usu­al . Even the weath­er was dis­mal; all this chilly mist in the mid­dle of Ju­ly... It wasn’t right, it wasn't nor­mal...
It was a hand­some room, with a fine mar­ble fire­place fac­ing the long sash win­dows, firm­ly closed against the un­sea­son­able chill . It was then, as he stood with his back to the room, that he heard a soft cough be­hind him . He froze, nose to nose with his own scared­look­ing re­flec­tion in the dark glass .
“I’m waiting for a tele­phone call, you see... from the Pres­ident of–“ The Prime Min­is­ter’s heart sank. He had been afraid of that. “But I re­al­ly was rather hop­ing to speak–“ . “Yes, I’ll see Fudge.” He hur­ried back to his desk, straight­en­ing his tie .
Cor­nelius Fudge was strid­ing for­ward with his hand out­stretched . “Good to see you again,” said Fudge, whose oc­ca­sion­al ap­pear­an­ces . The Prime Min­is­ter had seen that kind of look in poli­ti­cians be­fore .
“I’ve been hav­ing the same week you have, Prime Min­is­ter. The Brock­dale Bridge... the Bones and Vance mur­ders... not to men­tion the ruckus in the West Coun­try...” Fudge fixed the Prime Min–is­­ter with a rather stern look . It was pre­cise­ly this sort of be­hav­ior that made him dis­like Fudge’s vis­its so much .
ut­ter­ly ter­ri­fied to find a por­trait talk­ing to him . Fudge had re­mained speech­less through­out Fudge’s kind­ly ex­pla­na­tion that there were witch­es and wiz­ards still liv­ing in se­cret all over the world . It was, said Fudge, a dif­fi­cult job that en­com­
Fudge had ac­tu­al­ly laughed at the Prime Min­is­ter . “You’re–you’re not a hoax, then?” he said .
Prime Min­is­ter had stood there, quite mo­tion­less, and re­al­ized that he would nev­er, as long as he lived, dare men­tion this en­counter to a liv­ing soul . Fudge stepped in­to the emer­ald flames, and van­ished with a whoosh­ing sound .
The shock had tak­en a lit­tle while to wear off . He had tried to con­vince him­self that Fudge had in­deed been a hal­lu­ci­na­tion brought on by lack of sleep dur­ing his gru­el­ing elec­tion cam­paign . To the Prime Min­is­ter’s dis­may, how­ev­er, the por­trait had proved im
Prime Min­is­ter had all tried un­suc­cess­fully to pry it from the wall . He could have sworn he saw out of the cor­ner of his eye the oc­cu­pant of the paint­ing yawn­ing, or else scratch­ing his nose . Even, once or twice, sim­ply walk­ing out of his frame and leav­ing noth­ing but a stretch of mud­
Prime Min­is­ter had been alone in his of­fice when the por­trait had an­nounced the im­mi­nent ar­ri­val of Fudge . Fudge had started­ing rant­ing about a prison he had nev­er heard of, a man named “Se­rious” Black, some­thing that sound­ed like “Hog­warts” and a boy called Har­ry Pot­ter .
Prime Min­is­ter re­sent­ed be­ing told to sit down in his own of­fice, let alone of­fered his own whiskey . Fudge pulled out his wand, con­ju­red two large glass­es full of am­ber liq­uid out of thin air, pushed one of them in­to the Prime Minister’s hand, and drew up a chair . When at last Fudge had stood up to leave
Fudge had ap­peared out of thin air in the cab­in­et room to in­form the Prime Min­is­ter that there had been a spot of both­er at the Kwid­ditch (or that was what it had sound­ed like) World Cup . The fact that YouKnowWho’s Mark had been seen again meant noth­ing . “Oh, and I al­most for­got,” Fudge said .
The Prime Min­is­ter had hoped that drag­ons and sphinx­es would be the worst of it . Fudge had erupt­ed out of the fire yet again with the news that there had been a mass break­out from Azk­aban.
Prime Min­is­ter was not a fool­ish man . It had not es­caped his no­tice that, de­spite Fudge’s as­sur­an­ces at their first meet­ing, they were seeing­ing rather a lot of each oth­er . The Prime Minister could not help but fear the next time Fudge ap­peared it would be with graver news still .
“The Brock­dale Bridge didn’t wear out. That wasn’t re­al­ly a hur­ri­cane.” Fudge said, “Prime Min­is­ter, I am very sor­ry to have to tell you that he’s back.” “Back? When you say ‘back’... He’s alive? I mean–“ Fudge groped in his mem­ory .
“Yes, alive,” said Fudge dis­tract­ed­ly, turning­ing his bowler rapid­ly in his fin­gers . “I don’t know–is a man alive if he can’t be killed?” he said . The Prime Min­is­ter did not know what to say to this .
Prime Min­is­ter touched the wood of his desk, but Blacks bythe­by now . “At war?” re­peat­ed Fudge ner­vous­ly and twirling his bowler so fast it was a limegreen blur .
“Good grief, so it’s your fault those peo­ple were killed and I’m hav­ing to an­swer ques­tions about rust­ed rig­ging and cor­roded ex­pan­sion joints and I don’t know what else!” said the Prime Min­is­ter . “Are you saying­ing you would have caved in to black­mail like that?” Fudge col­or­ing­ly .
“Ex­cuse me!” barked the Prime Min­is­ter . “Trees up­root­ed, roofs ripped off, lamp­posts bent, hor­ri­ble in­ju­ries,” said Fudge .
“Amelia Bones... it just said she was a mid­dleaged wom­an who lived alone,” said the Prime Min­is­ter . “It hap­pened just around the cor­ner from here, as a mat­ter of fact,” said Fudge .
“I thought de­men­tors guard the pris­on­ers in Azk­aban,” he said cau­tious­ly . “They’ve de­sert­ed the prison and joined He­Who­Must­Not­Be­Named. I won’t pre­tend that wasn’t a blow.” “But,” said Prime Min­is­ter .
Prime Min­is­ter was mo­men­tar­ily lost for words . Fudge looked around at the por­trait of the ug­ly lit­tle man wearing the long curly sil­ver wig .
“I wish him luck,” said Fudge, sound­ing bit­ter for the first time . “I’ve been writ­ing to Dum­ble­dore twice a day for the past fort­night, but he won’t budge. If he’d just been pre­pared to per­suade the boy, I might still be... Well, maybe Scrim­geour will have more suc­cess.” Fudge sub­si
Ru­fus Scrim­geour looked rather like an old li­on . There was an im­me­di­ate im­pres­sion of shrewd­ness and tough­ness . The Prime Min­is­ter thought he un­der­stood why the Wiz­ard­ing com­mu­ni­ty pre­ferred Scrim-geour to Fudge as a lead­er in these dan­ger­ous
Scrim­geour replied, “I am per­fect­ly hap­py with the se­cu­ri­ty I’ve al­ready got, thank you very–“ “I’m not getting­ting rid of Kings­ley Shack­le­bolt, if that’s what you’re sug­gest­ing!” . “You can’t just put your peo­ple in­to my of­fice, I de­cide who works for
“He’s on­ly quack­ing!” said the Prime Min­is­ter weak­ly . “I... well... He’ll be all right, won’t he?” Scrim­geour said .
Scrim­geour turned slow­ly on the spot and ex­changed an in­cred­ulous look with Fudge . The Prime Min­is­ter gazed hope­less­ly at the pair of them for a mo­ment . There was no sound apart from the whisper of the black wa­ter .
The fox froze, wary eyes fixed up­on this strange new phe­nomenon . The fig­ure seemed to take its bear­in­gs for a few mo­ments, then set off with light, quick strides, its long cloak rustling over the grass . There was a flash of green light, a yelp, and the fox fell back to the ground, dead .
Bel­la fol­lowed, her cloak stream­ing be­hind, and saw Nar­cis­sa dart­ing through an al­ley be­tween the hous­es in­to a sec­ond, al­most iden­ti­cal street . The pur­suer caught up with her prey just as she turned an­oth­er cor­ner, this time suc­ceed­ing in catch­ing hold of
“Let go, Bel­la!” snarled Nar­cis­sa, and she drew a wand from be­neath her cloak, holding it threat­en­ing­ly in the oth­er’s face .
Nar­cis­sa hur­ried up a street over which the mill chim­ney seemed to hov­er like a gi­ant ad­mon­ito­ry fin­ger . She had knocked on the door be­fore Bel­la, curs­ing un­der her breath, had caught up . Af­ter a few sec­onds, they heard move­ment be­hind the door and it opened a crack 
“May I speak to you? It’s ur­gent.” “But of course.” He stood back to al­low her to pass him in­to the house. “Snape,” she said curt­ly as she passed him . “Bel­la­trix,” his thin mouth curl­ing in to a slight­ly mock­ing smile as he closed the door with a snap be­hind them .
“We... we are alone, aren’t we?” Nar­cis­sa asked qui­et­ly. “As you have clear­ly re­al­ized, Worm­tail, we have guests,” said Snape . “I am not your ser­vant!” he squeaked, avoid­ing Snape’s eye. “To as­sist, yes–but not to make you drinks and–and clean your house!” Snape said .
Snape poured out three glass­es of blood­red wine and hand­ed two of them to the sis­ters . Nar­cis­sa said noth­ing, but con­tin­ued to glow­er at Snape. “Severus, I’m sor­ry to come here like this, but I had to see you.
“Severus, I know I ought not to be here, I have been told to say noth­ing to any­one, but–“ “Then you ought to hold your tongue!” snarled Bel­la­trix . “That I don’t trust you, Snape, as you very well know!”
“Where were you when the Dark Lord fell? Why did you nev­er make any at­tempt to find him when he van­ished? Why do you not re­trieve at once when you have had him at your mer­cy for five years?” She paused, her chest ris­ing and falling rapid­ly, the col­or high in her cheeks . “Be­fore I an­swer you, I say, let me ask a ques­
Bel­la­trix looked, for the first time, dis­com­fit­ed . He picked up his drink again, sipped it, and con­tin­ued, “You ask where I was when the Dark Lord fell. I was where he had or­dered me to be, at Hog­warts School of Witchcraft and Wiz­ardry, be­cause he wished me to spy up­on Al­bus Dum­ble­dor
“Of i nurse, you weren’t a lot of use to him in prison, but the ges­ture was un­doubt­ed­ly fine —” “Ges­ture!” she shrieked; in her fury she looked slight­ly mad . “This was your sac­ri­fice for the Dark Lord, not to teach your fa­vorite sub­ject?” she jeered .
“Yes, Bel­la­trix, I stayed,” said Snape, be­tray­ing a hint of im­pa­tience for the first time . “I had a com­fortable job that I pre­ferred to a stint in Azk­aban. They were round­ing up the Death Eaters, you know. It was most con­ve­nient and I used it. I re­peat: The Dark Lord does not com
Bel­la­trix: The Dark Mark had been growing stronger for months . “The Dark Lord’s ini­tial dis­plea­sure at my late­ness vanished en­tire­ly, when I ex­plained that 1 re­mained faith­ful, al­though Dum­ble­dore thought that I had left him for­ev­er, but he was wrong” .
“My in­for­ma­tion has been con­veyed di­rect­ly to the Dark Lord,” said Snape . “Does he still, af­ter the fi­as­co at the Min­istry?” said Bel­la­trix .
The Dark Lord is sat­is­fied with the in­for­ma­tion I have passed him on the Or­der . It led, as per­haps you haveguessed, to the re­cent cap­ture and mur­der of Em­me­line Vance . He in­clined his head and toast­ed her . “You are avoid­ing my last ques­tion, Snape. Har­ry Pot­ter. You could have killed him at
Dumble­dore’s pro­tec­tion kept me out of Azk­aban! Do you dis­agree that mur­der­ing his fa­vorite stu­dent might have turned him against me? I should re­mind you that when Pot­ter first ar­rived at Hog­warts there were still many sto­ries cir­cu­lat­ing about him, ru­mors that he him­self
Dumble­dore has nev­er sus­pect­ed you?” asked Bel­la­trix . “He has no idea of your true al­le­gi­ance, he trusts you im­plic­it­ly still?” said Snape .
“The Dark Lord has for­bid­den me to speak of it,” Nar­cis­sa con­tin­ued, her eyes still closed . “He wish­es none to know of the plan. It is... very se­cret. But —” Snape said at once .
“I am afraid there is no hope, none at all.” “Severus,” she whis­pered, tears slid­ing down her pale cheeks . “My son... my on­ly son...” “Dra­co should be proud,” said Bel­la­trix in­dif­fer­ent­ly .
“The Dark Lord will not be per­suad­ed, and I am not stupid enough to at­tempt it,” said Snape flat­ly . “He does not mean him to suc­ceed, he wants him to be killed try­ing!” choked Nar­cis­sa . She stag­gered to Snape and seized the front of his robes .
Snape stooped, seized her by the arms, lift­ed her up, iind steered her back on­to the so­fa . He then poured her more wine in­to her hand . “He in­tends me to do it in the end, I think. But he is de­ter­mined that Dra­co should try first,” Snape said .
“I might be pos­si­ble... for me to help Dra­co.” She sat up, her face pa­per­white, her eyes huge . “Severus, oh, Severus — you would help him?” “I can try.” Snape flung away her glass; it skid­ded across the ta­ble as she slid off the so­fa .
Be­neath Bel­la­trix low­ered him­self so that he was kneel­ing op­po­site Nar­cis­sa. “You will need your wand,” said Snape cold­ly. “And you will need to move a lit­tle closer,” he said.
Harry Potter and the Half-Blood Prince Chapter 3: Will And Won’t Har­ry Pot­ter was snor­ing loud­ly . The misty fug his breath had left on the win­dow sparkled in the or­ange glare of the street­lamp out­side, and the ar­ti­fi­cial light drained his face .
Nev­er­the­less, high­ly placed sources with­in the Min­istry have con­firmed that the dis­tur­bance cen­tered on the fa­bled Hall of Prophe­cy . Some are go­ing so far as to call Pot­ter “the Cho­sen One” be­liev­ing that the prophecy names him as the on­ly one who will be able to rid us of He­Who­Mus
SCRIM­GEOUR SUC­CEEDS FUDGE Most of this front page was tak­en up with a large blackand­white pic­ture of a man with thick hair and a rather rav­aged face . Ru­fus Scrim­geour, pre­vi­ous­ly Head of the Au­ror of­fice in the De­part­ment of Mag­ic Law En­force­ment, has suc­ceed­ed Cor­n
Min­is­ter of Mag­ic, Ru­fus Scrim­geour, spoke to­day of the tough new mea­sures tak­en by his Min­istry to en­sure the safe­ty of stu­dents re­turn­ing to Hog­warts School of Witchcraft and Wiz­ardry this au­tumn .
The Min­istry of Mag­ic PRO­TECT­ING YOUR HOME AND FAM­ILY AGAINST DARK FORCES The Wiz­ard­ing com­mu­ni­ty is cur­rent­ly un­der threat from a call­ing it­self the Death Eaters .
De­tect Death Eaters mas­quer­ad­ing as oth­ers by using the Polyjuice Po­tion (see page 2). If you feel that a fam­ily mem­ber is acting in a strange man­ner, con­tact the Mag­ical Law En­force­ment Squad at once .
Har­ry sev­er­al had read this let­ter so of­ten since its ar­ri­val three days ago that al­though it had been de­liv­ered in a tight­ly furled scroll, it now lay quite flat . If you are agree­able, I should al­so be glad of your as­sis­tance . Please send your an­swer by re­turn of this owl .
Har­ry knew it was point­less to keep reread­ing Dum­ble­dore’s words . It seemed too good that he was going to be rescued from the Durs­leys af­ter a mere fortnight of their com­pa­ny . He could not shrug off the feel­ing that some­thing was going­ing to go wrong .
Har­ry awoke as though the sud­den dark­ness were an alarm . He pressed his nose against the win­dow in­stead and squint­ed down at the pave­ment . A tall fig­ure in a long, bil­low­ing cloak was walking up the gar­den path .
Har­ry ran down the stairs two at a time, com­ing to an abrupt halt sev­er­al steps from the bot­tom . There stood a tall, thin man with waistlength sil­ver hair and beard . Half­moon spec­ta­cles were perched on his crooked nose .
Ver­non Durs­ley said noth­ing at all, my dear man. Ah, and this must be Petu­nia . It might have been the wiz­ardish­ness of his ap­pear­an­ce .
Aunt Petu­nia had sent her ex­plod­ing letter, but she did not chal­lenge the term . "And this must be your son, Dud­ley?" Har­ry said . “Shall we as­sume that you have in­vit­ed me in­to your sit­ting room?” he asked .
Dum­ble­dore was tak­ing in the sur­round­in­gs wilh an ex­pres­sion of be­nign in­ter­est . “Aren’t —- aren’t we leav­ing, sir?” Har­ry asked anx­ious­ly .
Har­ry saw his hand was black­ened and shriv­eled; it looked as though his flesh had been burned away . “Lat­er, Har–ry,” said Dum­ble­dore . A third twitch of the wand, and a dusty bot­tle and five glass­es ap­peared .
Har­ry could not sup­press a sus­pi­cion that Dum­ble­dore was rather en­joy­ing him­self . The Durs­leys tried to ig­nore their glass­es com­plete­ly, a dif­fi­cult feat, as they were nudg­ing them gen­tly on their heads .
‘His god­fa­ther’s dead?’ said Un­cle Ver­non loud­ly . “He’s been left a house?” said Har­ry nev­er greed­ily .
‘Black fam­ily tra­di­tion de­creed that the house was hand­ed down the di­rect line, to the next male with the name ‘Black’ . Sir­ius was the very last of the line as his younger broth­er Reg­ulus pre­de­ceased him and both were child­less . “I bet there has,” said Dum­ble­dore .
“The sit­ua­tion is fraught with com­pli­ca­tions. We do not know whether the en­chant­ments we our­selves have placed up­on it, for ex­am­ple, mak­ing it Un­plot­ta­ble, will hold now that own­er­ship has passed from Sir­ius’s hands . It might be that Bel­la­trix will ar­rive on the doorstep at any mo­ment 
Aunt Petu­nia let out a hair­rais­ing shriek; noth­ing this filthy had en­tered her house in liv­ing mem­ory . Un­cle Ver­non drew his large, bare, pink feet off the floor and sat with them raised al­most above his head .
Kreach­er be­longs to Miss Bel­la­trix, oh yes . “I don’t care,” said Har­ry again, looking with dis­gust at the writhing, stamp­ing house­elf .
“If he has passed in­to your own­er­ship, he will have to obey. If not, then we shall have to think of some oth­er means of keeping him from his right­ful mis­tress.” It looked for a mo­ment as though Kreach­er was going­ing to choke . “Do I — do I have to keep him with me?” Har­ry asked, aghast, us Kreach-er thrashed around at his feet
Er — Kreach­er — I want you to go to Hog­warts and work in the kitchens there with the oth­er house­elves . “Good,” said Dum­ble­dore. “There is al­so the mat­ter of the hip­pogriff, Buck­beak is yours now.” “No,” said Har­ry at once, “he can stay with Ha­grid. He will be de­light­ed.”
Har­ry hur­ry­ing to pick up his fall­en tele­scope and train­ers . It took him a little over ten min­utes to track down ev­ery­thing he need­ed . At last he had man­aged to ex­tract his In­vis­ibil­ity Cloak from un­der the bed . Then, he screwed the top back on his jar of col­or­change ink
Wiz­ard­ing com­mu­ni­ty is cur­rent­ly in a state of open war­fare . Har­ry, whom Lord Volde­mort has al­ready at­tempt­ed to kill on a num­ber of oc­ca­sions, is in even greater dan­ger now .
Har­ry has known noth­ing but ne­glect and of­ten cru­el­ty at your hands . The best that can be said is that he has at least es­caped the ap­palling dam­age you have in­flict­ed up­on the un­for­tu­nate boy sit­ting be­tween you . “Us — mis­treat Dud­ders? What 
Un­cle Ver­non looked as though he had some­thing stuck in his throat . Aunt Petu­nia, how­ev­er, was odd­ly flushed . “Well, Har­ry... time for us to be off,” said Dum­ble­dore .
Harry Potter and the Half-Blood Prince Chapter 4: Horace Slughorn De­spite the fact that he had spent ev­ery wak­ing mo­ment of the past few days hop­ing des­per­ately that Dum­ble­dore would come to fetch him . Har­ry felt dis­tinct­ly awk­ward as they set off down Priv­et Drive to­geth­er . “Why not, si
Har­ry felt Dum­ble­dore’s arm twist away from him and re­dou­bled his grip . The next thing he knew, ev­ery­thing went black; his eye­balls were be­ing pushed back in­to his head . “You have not, of course, passed your Ap­pari­tion Test,” he said . "You will need to hold on to my arm very tight­ly. My left, as you have no
Har­ry re­al­ized that he had just Ap­pa­rat­ed for the first time in his life . He gulped great lung­fulls of cold night air and opened his stream­ing eyes . “Your scar... has it been hurt­ing at all?” he said .
Volde­mort has fi­nal­ly re­al­ized the dan­ger­ous ac­cess to his thoughts and feel­in­gs you have been en­joy­ing . “Well, I’m not com­plain­ing,” said Har­ry, who missed nei­ther the dis­turbing dreams nor the startling flash­es of in­sight .
Har­ry cast a look over his shoul­der and grasped his wand re­as­sur­ing­ly in his pock­et . “Be­cause it would be quite as rude as kick­ing down the front door,” said Dum­ble­dore .
Ru­fus Scrim­geour used to be Head of the Au­ror office . “Is he... Do you think he’s good?” asked Har­ry. “A more de­ci­sive and force­ful per­son­al­ity than Cor­nelius.”
Har­ry un­der­stood that he was not be­ing snubbed . “I got a Min­istry of Mag­ic leaflet by owl, about se­cu­ri­ty mea­sures we should all take against the Death Eaters...” “No, I thought not. You have not asked me, for in­stance, what is my fa­vorite fla­vor of jam, to check that I am in­deed Pro
In­feri have not been seen for a long time, how­ev­er, not since Volde­mort was last pow­er­ful... He killed enough peo­ple to make an army of them, of course . They were near­ing a small, neat stone house set in its own gar­den . Dum­ble­dore stopped dead and Har­ry walked in­to him .
A pi­ano was on its side, its keys strewn across the floor . Cush­ions lay de­flat­ed, feath­ers ooz­ing from slash­es in their sides . frag­ments of glass and chi­na lay like pow­der over ev­ery­thing .
Dum­ble­dore swooped, plung­ing the tip of his wand in­to the seat of the over­stuffed arm­chair, which yelled, “Ouch!” Har­rys jaw dropped . The wan­dlight sparkled on his shiny pate, his pro­mi­nent eyes, his enor­mous, sil­ver, wal­rus­like mus­tache, and the high­ly polished
“My dear Ho­race,” said Dum­ble­dore . “I’d on­ly just put the fin­ish­ing touch­es to my up­holstery when you en­tered the room.” He heaved a great sigh .
Ho­race Slughorn turned on Dumble­dore, his ex­pres­sion shrewd . “On the walls? Drag­on,” shout­ed the wiz­ard . There was a fi­nal plunk from the pi­ano, and si­lence .
Har­ry took the seat with the dis­tinct im­pres­sion that Dumble­dore wanted to keep him as vis­ible as pos­si­ble . “Hmpf,” he said, look­ing away quick­ly as though fright­ened of hurt­ing his eyes .
“You’re not yet as old as I am, Ho­race,” said Dum­ble­dore . “You must have moved fair­ly quick­ly to pre­pare such a wel­come for us at such short no­tice,” he said .
“You’re quite right,” said Dum­ble­dore serene­ly . “1 am un­doubt­ed­ly slow­er than I was. But on the oth­er hand...” He shrugged and spread his hands wide, as though age had its com­pen­sa­tions .
Nev­er stay in one place more than a week . It’s quite easy once you know how, one sim­ple Freez­ing Charm on these ab­surd bur­glar alarms they use in­stead of Sneako­scopes .
Har­ry chuck­led and both Dum­ble­dore and Slughorn looked round at him . “I didn’t like her ei­ther.” Har­RY said hasti­ly. “No, I was won­der­ing whether I might use your bath­room,” said Dumble­Dore .
Sir­ius Black was a big pal of your fa­ther’s at school . It was as though an invis­ible hand had twist­ed Har­ry’s in­testines and held them tight . “I got his broth­er, Regulus, when he came along, but I’d have liked the set.”
‘Your moth­er was Mug­gle­born, of course. Couldn’t be­lieve it when I found out. Thought she must have been pure­blood, she was so good’, said Har­ry . “You mustn't think I’m prejudiced!” he said .
Barn­abas Cuffe, ed­itor of the Dai­ly Prophet, is al­ways in­ter­est­ed to hear my take on the day’s news . I gave him an in­tro­duc­tion to Ci­ceron Harkisss who gave him his first job! And at the back — you’ll see her if you just crane your neck — that’s Gwenog Jones, who of course cap­tains the
Har­ry had been sure Slughorn would be one of those wiz­ards who could not bear to hear Volde­mort’s name spo­ken aloud . “Most of the teach­ers aren’t in it, and none of them has ev­er been killed — well, un­less you count you count Quir­rell, and he got what he de­served see­ing as he was working with Volde_mort,”
He­Who­Must­Not­Be­Named has nev­er sought a fight with Dumble­dore . Slughorn jumped as though he had for­got­ten he was in the house . “Oh, there you are, Al­bus,” he said .
“Well, I’m sorry you don’t want the job, Ho­race,” said Dum­ble­dore . “Well... well... very gra­cious... as I say...” “Goodbye, then.” “Bye,” said Har­ry. “You will come out of re­tire­ment?” “Yes, yes,” said Slughorn im­pa­tient­ly .
Har­ry sup­posed he had been pleas­ant in his way, but had al­so seemed vain and, what­ev­er he said to the con­trary, much too sur­prised that a Mug­gle­born should make a good witch . “Oh yes, you did. You showed Ho­race ex­act­ly how much he stands to gain by re­turn­ing to Hog­warts. Did you like him
Ho­race formed a kind of club of his fa­vorites with him­self at the cen­ter, mak­ing in­tro­duc­tions, forg­ing use­ful con­tacts be­tween mem­bers . Har­ry had a sud­den and vivid men­tal im­age of a great swollen spi­der, spin­ning a web around it, twitch­ing 
He will un­doubt­ed­ly try to col­lect you, Har­ry . You would be the jew­el of his col­lec­tion; ‘the Boy Who Lived’... or, as they call you these days, ‘the Cho­sen One’ . He was re­mind­ing of words he had heard a few weeks ago .
A lit­tle puz­zled, Har­ry fol­lowed Dum­ble­dore through the creak­ing door . He il­lu­mi­nat­ed the tip of his wand, so that it glowed like a torch . “I am pleased and a little proud at how well you seem to be cop­ing af­ter ev­ery­thing that hap­pened at the Min­
Har­ry spent near­ly all his time at Durs­leys’ ly­ing on his bed, re­fus­ing meals, and star­ing at the mist­ed win­dow . He felt stupid for ad­mitting it, but the fact that he had had some­one out­side Hog­warts who cared what hap­pened to him had been one of the best things about dis­cov­er­ing his god­fa
Sir­ius wouldn’t have wanted­ed that, would he? And any­way, life’s too short... Look at Madam Bones, look at Em­me­line Vance... It could be me next, couldn’t it? But if it is, I’ll make sure I take as many Death Eaters with me as I can, and Volde­mort too if I can man­age it” said Dum­ble­dore .
Lord Volde­mort sent his Death Eaters to steal a prophe­cy . “No, they do not,” said Dum­ble­dore, sur­vey­ing Har­ry over top of his half­moon spec­ta­cles .
Har­ry said noth­ing, but Dum­ble­dore did not seem to re­quire an­swer . “I think it is time that I took a greater hand in your ed­uca­tion.” “Oh, a lit­tle of this,” said Dumble­Dore air­ily .
“Don’t count your owls be­fore they are de­liv­ered,” said Dum­ble­dore grave­ly . “First­ly, I wish you to keep your In­vis­ibil­ity Cloak with you at all i imes from this mo­ment onward. Even with­in Hog­warts it­self.” Har­ry nod­ded .
Har­ry and Dumble­dore ap­proached the back door of the Bur­row . There stood Mrs. Weasley, short, plump, and wear­ing an old green dress­ing gown . The door opened at once .
Har­ry thought she looked drawn, even ill, and there was some­thing forced in her smile . “Please don’t leave on my ac­count,” said Dum­ble­dore cour­te­ous­ly, “I can­not stay, I have ur­gent mat­ters to dis­cuss with Ru­fus Scrim­geour.” “No, no, I need to get go­ing,” said Tonks .
Mrs. Weasley slid a bowl near­ly be­neath it just in lime to catch the stream of thick, steam­ing onion soup . “You’re like Ron,” she sighed, looking­ing him up and down .
Har­ry sw­al­lowed a large amount of hot soup and thought he could feel his throat blis­ter­ing . “He taught Arthur and me,” said Mrs. Weasley .
“You are sweet,” beamed Mrs. Weasley pos­si­bly tak­ing his wa­ter­ing eyes for emo­tion at the news . “Yes, Ru­fus Scrim­geour has set up sev­er­al new of­fices in re­sponse to the present sit­ua­tion .
The oth­er day Arthur con­fis­cat­ed a box of cursed Sneako­scopes that were al­most cer­tain­ly planted by a Death Eater . Mrs. Weasley ended her speech with a stern look, as if it had been Har­ry sug­ging that it was nat­ural to miss spark plugs .
Mrs. Weasley turned to look at a large clock that was perched awkward­ly on top of a pile of sheets in the wash­ing basket at the end of the ta­ble . It had nine hands, each in­scribed with the name of an fam­ily mem­ber, and usu­al­ly hung on i he Heasleys’ sit­ting room wall . The cur­rent po­si­tion sug
Mrs. Weasley opened the door to re­veal her husband, a thin, bald­ing, red­haired wiz­ard wear­ing horn­rimmed spec­ta­cles and a long and dusty trav­eling cloak . “I still don’t see why we have to go through that ev­ery time you come home,” she said .
Mr. Weasley turned hope­ful­ly in the di­rec­tion of the ta­ble . “Harry! We didn’t ex­pect you un­til morn­ing!” They shook hands . Mr. weasley dropped in­to the chair be­side Har­ry . The boys wouldn’t do any­thing like that now, not when peo­ple are des­per­ate for pro­tection!”
“I’ve got Fred and George’s room all ready for you, you’ll have it to your­self” Har­ry sti­fled a yawn be­hind his hand . “Oh, they’re in Di­agon Al­ley, sleep­ing in the lit­tle flat,” said Mrs. Weasley .
Fred and George’s bed­room was on the sec­ond floor . Mrs. Weasley point­ed her wand at a lamp on the bed­side ta­ble . A large vase of flow­ers had been placed on a desk in front of the small win­dow .
Har­ry groped hope­less­ly for his glass­es with the oth­er . “Ron, don’t hit him!” said a girl’s voice re­proach­ful­ly . A long, loom­ing shad­ow quivered in front of him for a mo­ment .
“Oh, I’m fine,” said Hermione, who was scru­ti­niz­ing Har­ry as though he was sick­en­ing for some­thing . He thought he knew what was be­hind this, and as he had no wish to dis­cuss Sir­ius’s death or any oth­er mis­er­able sub­ject at the mo­ment, he said, “What’s the time? Have I missed
Ron’s younger sis­ter slouched in­to the room, look­ing ir­ri­ta­ble . “I know, she’s so full of her­self,” said Hermione . She could not blame Ron for saying­ing angri­ly, “Can’t you two lay off her for five sec­onds?” She snapped Gin­ny .
Har­ry in­stinctive­ly yanked the bed­cov­ers up to his chin so hard that Hermione and Gin­ny slid off the bed on­to the floor . She was tall and wil­lowy with long blonde hair and ap­peared to em­anate a faint, sil­very glow . “There was no need to bring up the tray, I was just about to do it my­self
Fleur turned back to Har­ry, swing­ing her sil­very sheet of hair so it whipped Mrs. Weasley across the face . She swooped down up­on him and kissed him again . “Mum hates her,” said Gin­ny qui­et­ly. “I just think they’ve hurried in­to this en­gage­ment, that’s all!” said Ron .
Gin­ny sly­ly: “Where­as Bill and Fleur... well... what had they re­al­ly got in com­mon? Bill’s not that down­toearth. He’s a Curse­Break­er, isn’t he? I ex­pect that’s why he’s gone for Phlegm.” Har­ry and Hermione laughed . “Don’t you get used to her if
“You don’t re­al­ly want her around for­ev­er?” Gin­ny asked Ron in­cred­ulous­ly . “How’s she go­ing to put a stop to it if she can, I bet you any­thing.” “Yeah, that’ll work,” said Ron .
“I’d much rather have Tonks in the fam­ily,” said Gin­ny . “She hasn’t been much of a laugh late­ly,” said Ron .
“I think her pow­ers must have been af­fect­ed by shock, or some­thing.” “I didn’t know that could hap­pen,” said Hermione . “I’m talking to this lot!” said Mrs. Weasley .
“Your mum said the shop’s go­ing well,” said Har­ry . “They’re rak­ing in the Galleons! I can’t wait to see the place, we haven’t been to Di­agon Al­ley yet .
“I won­der why he’s... ?” said Ron, look­ing im­pressed . Har­ry laid down his knife and fork, his heart beat­ing rather fast con­sid­er­ing that all he was do­ing was sitting in bed .
“The Prophet’s got it right,” said Har­ry . “I heard the whole thing in Dum­ble­dore’s of­fice, he was the one the prophe­cy was made to, so he could tell me.” The three gazed at one an­oth­er in si­lence for a mo­ment .
“We won­dered, af­ter we got back from the Min­istry... Ob­vi­ous­ly, we didn’t want to say any­thing to you, but from what Lu­cius Mal­foy said about the prophe­cy, how it was about you and Volde­mort, well, we thought it might be some­thing like this... Oh, Har­ry...” She stared at him, then whis­pered, “Are you
Ron and Hermione were still there on ei­ther side of him, speaking brac­ing words of com­fort . “...and eva­sive en­chantments gen­er­al­ly,” con­clud­ed Ron . He won­der when our OWL re­sults will come? “To­day? But why didn’t you... oh my God... you should have said...” She leapt to her feet
Mrs. Weasley stood over Hermione with her wand in her hand and a copy of The Heal­er’s Help­mate open at “Bruis­es, Cuts, and Abra­sions” . “I can’t go around look­ing like this for­ev­er!” said Fleur, smil­ing serene­ly .
“I know I messed up An­cient Runes,” mut­tered Hermione fever­ish­ly, “I def­inite­ly made at least one se­ri­ous mis­trans­la­tion” . “I knew I’ve failed ev­ery­thing!” said Har­ry, flap­ping her hands hys­ter­ically .
Hermione was point­ing through the kitchen win­dow . Three black specks were clear­ly vis­ible in the sky . “They’re definite­ly owls,” said Har­ry, has­ten­ing to her oth­er side .
Or­di­nary Wiz­ard­ing Lev­el Re­sults Pass Grades: Out­stand­ing (O) Ex­ceeds Ex­pec­ta­tions (E) Ac­cept­able (A) Fail Grades . Har­ry James Pot­ter has achieved: As­tron­omy A Care of Mag­ical Crea­tures E Charms E De­fense Against the Dark Arts O Div­ina­
“Knew you’d be top at De­fense Against the Dark Arts,” said Ron . “We’ve done all right, haven’t we?” “Well done!” said Mrs. Weasley proud­ly .
Har­ry had known all along that he wouldn’t, but he still felt a sink­ing in his stom­ach as he looked again at that small black E . It was odd, re­al­ly, see­ing that it had been a Death Eater in dis­guise who had first told Harry he would make a good Au­ror, but some­how the idea had tak­en hold of him, and he couldn’t
Har­ry spent most of his days playing Quid­ditch in the Weasleys’ or­chard . He and Hermione were dread­ful and Gin­ny good, so they were well matched . It would have been a hap­py, peace­ful hol­iday had it not been for the stones of dis­ap­pear­an­ces, odd ac­ci­dents . Some­times Bill and Mr.
Ig­or Karkaroff's body has been found in a shack up north . Mr. Weasley stayed alive for even a year af­ter de­sert­ing the Death Eaters . “Did you hear about Flo­re­an Fortescue, Re­mus?” asked Bill .
“That gives you equal sta­tus with pre­fects!” cried Hermione hap­pi­ly . “I don’t sup­pose we can put off a trip to Di­agon Al­ley much longer now you’ve got these,” sighed Mrs. Weasley, looking­ing down Ron...s book­list .
Mrs. Weasley snatch­ing up her clock, all nine hands of which were point­ing at “mor­tal per­il” and bal­anc­ing it on top of a pile of just­laun­dered tow­els . But Ron was care­ful not to be flip­pant about Volde­mort over the next few days .
Arkie Philpott had a Pro­bity Probe stuck up his... Well, trust me, this way’s eas­ier.” “Thanks, Bill,” said Har­ry . Gin­ny mimed vom­it­ing in­to her ce­re­al be­hind Fleur . It was an over­cast, murky day .
Mr. Weasley was in front with the Min­istry driv­er . The front pas­sen­ger seat had oblig­ing­ly stretched in­to what re­sem­bled a twoseater so­fa . “He’s been giv­en top­grade se­cu­ri­ty sta­tus. And we’ll be joining up with ad­di­tion­al se­
Rubeus Ha­grid, the Hog­warts game­keep­er, wore a long beaver­skin coat . “Har­ry!” he boomed, sweep­ing Har­ry in­to a bonecrush­ing hug the mo­ment .
Har­ry, Hermione, Ha­grid, and the Weasleys walked through the bar and out in­to the chilly lit­tle court­yard at the back where the dust­bins stood . They stepped through the en­trance and paused, look­ing around .
A few win­dows were board­ed up, in­clud­ing those of Flo­re­an Fortes­cue’s Ice Cream Par­lor . A seedy­look­ing lit­tle wiz­ard was rat­tling arm­fuls of sil­ver symbols on chains at passers­by .
Mrs. Weasley glar­ing an­gri­ly at the amulet sell­er . “I think we’d bet­ter do Madam Malkin’s first, Hermione wants new dress robes, and Ron’s show­ing much too much an­kle in his school robe, and you’ve grown so much... come on, ev­ery­one...”
Har­ry, Ron, and Hermione en­tered the lit­tle shop to­geth­er . It ap­peared to be emp­ty, but no soon­er had the door swung shut . There was a cluck­ing noise and a voice Harry rec­og­nized as Madam Malkin .
Madam Malkin strode to the mir­ror and ex­am­in­ed him­self . Har­ry, Ron, and Hermione re­flected over his shoul­der . His light gray eyes nar­rowed. “I don’t think there’s any need for lan­guage like that!” said Madam .
Madam Malkin squealed and clutched at her heart . “Go­ing to get a few Death Eater pals to do us in, are you?” Har­ry did not low­er his wand .
Har­ry raised his wand high­er. “Har­ry, no!” moaned Hermione, grab­bing his arm and at­tempt­ing to push it down by his side . Madam Malkin seemed to de­cide to act as though noth­ing was hap­pen­ing in the hope that it wouldn’t .
Madam Malkin was dis­tract­ed all through the fit­ting of Ron’s and Har­ry’s new robes . “Got ev’ry­thing?” asked Ha­grid bright­ly when they reap­peared at his side .
Nei­ther Har­ry nor Ron bought large box­es of owl nuts for Hed­wig and Pigwid­geon at Eey­lops Owl Em­po­ri­um . Then, with Mrs. Weasley checking her watch ev­ery minute or so, they head­ed far­thers along the street in search of Fred and Georges win­dows . “We must be close, that’s num­ber nine­t
WHY ARE YOU WOR­RY­ING ABOUT YOUKNOWWHO? Har­ry start­ed to laugh. He heard a weak sort of moan be­side him and looked around to see Mrs. Weasley gaz­ing, dumb­found­es, at the poster. “They’ll be mur­dered in their beds!” she whis­pered. “No they won’t!” said Ron, who, like Harry, was laugh­ing.
Har­ry no­ticed that the Nosebleed Nougat was most pop­ular, with on­ly one bat­tered box left on the shelf . There were bins full of trick wands, the cheap­est mere­ly turn­ing in­to rub­ber chick­ens or pairs of briefs when waved, and box­es of quills . “Patent­ed Day­dream Charms” Hermione had man­aged to squeeze
Hermione looked ner­vous . He pulled a tub out of his pock­et and hand­ed it to her . “Just dab it on, that bruise’ll be gone with­in the hour,” said Fred .
Fred’s twin shook Har­ry’s hand en­er­get­ical­ly . The pack­ag­ing on the prod­ucts lin­ing these shelves was more sub­dued . “We’ve just de­vel­oped this more se­ri­ous line,” said Fred.
Min­istry bought five hun­dreds for all its sup­port staff! And we’ve ex­pand­ed in­to a range of Shield Cloaks, Shield Gloves... And then we thought we’d get into the whole area of De­fense Against the Dark Arts, be­cause it’s such a mon­ey spin­ner,” con­tin­ued George en­thu­si­cal
Har­ry found it very odd to hear Fred and George called “Mr. Weasley” but they took it in their stride . “Right you are, Ver­ity, I’m com­ing,” said George prompt­ly .
Gin­ny raised an eye­brow skep­ti­cal­ly. “Do they work?” she asked. “... and the attrac­tive­ness of the girl,” said George .
Gin­ny put a fin­ger through the bars of the cage and watched the Pygmy Puffs crowd around it . “They’re fair­ly cud­dly, yes,” con­ced­ed Fred .
Mrs. Weasley moved aside to look at the Pygmy Puffs . Har­ry, Ron, and Hermione mo­men­tar­ily had an unim­ped­ed view out of the win­dow . Dra­co Mal­foy was hur­ry­ing up the street alone .
Har­ry, Ron, and Hermione squeezed their way out of the door as quick­ly as they could, but by the time they gained the street, Mal­foy had dis­ap­peared just as suc­cess­fully as they had . “That’s him, isn’t it?” she whis­pered .
Har­ry sup­posed it was a bit of a give­away in these dan­ger­ous and sus­pi­cious times to buy Dark ar­ti­facts... or at least, to be seen buying them . There in the midst of the cas­es full of skulls and old bot­tles stood Dra­co Mal­foy with his back to them, just vis­ible be­yond the very same large black cab­in
Ron un­rav­eled the long, flesh­col­ored strings and be­gan to feed them to­ward the bot­tom of the door . “Oh, I hope the door isn’t Im­per­turbable...” “No!” said Hermione glee­ful­ly. “Lis­ten!” They put their heads to­geth­er and lis­tened in­tent­ly to the ends of the strings .
Har­ry, Ron, and Hermione shuf­fled side­ways to try and keep Bor­gin in sight . “There will be ret­ri­bu­tion,” said Maifoy, “there will be no need for...” “I’ll de­cide that,” said Mal­foy .
In­side the shop, Bor­gin re­mained frozen; his unc­tu­ous smile had van­ished; he looked wor­ried . Ron hasti­ly fed the Ex­tend­able Ears back un­der the door and set­ting the bell tin­kling again .
Hermione hur­ried to the door with Bor­gin at her heels . “Well, next time you can show me how it’s done, Mas­ter of Mys­tery!” she snapped .
Harry Potter and the Half-Blood Prince Chapter 7: The Slug Club Har­ry spent a lot of the last week of the hol­idays pon­der­ing the mean­ing of Mal­foy’s be­hav­ior in Knock­turn Al­ley . To his slight an­noy­an­ce, how­ev­er, nei­ther Ron nor Hermione seemed quite as cu­ri­
“Yes, I’ve al­ready agreed it was fishy, Har­ry,” said Hermione . “Maybe he’s bro­ken his Hand of Glo­ry” said Ron vague­ly . He at­tempt­ed to straight­en his broom­stick’s bent tail twigs .
Ron and Hermione looked at each oth­er. “Well...” said Ron, sound­ing thor­ough­ly uncon­vinced . “He showed Bor­gin some­thing we couldn’t see,” Har­ry pressed on stubborn­ly .
Har­ry snatched up a pile of filthy Quid­ditch robes and left the room . Mrs. Weasley had been urg­ing them for days not to leave their wash­ing and pack­ing un­til the last mo­ment . “There’s a lot of Phlegm around,” she warned him .
Fleur ex­am­ing her own stun­ning re­flec­tion in the back of a tea­spoon . “You’d bet­ter get on, Har­ry, I want the trunks ready tonight, so we don’t have the usu­al last­minute scram­ble,” Fleur said .
Har­ry ir­ri­ta­bly jerk­ing his arm out of the Au­ror’s grip . He mo­tioned to Ron and Hermione to fol­low him up the plat­form .
“Oh yeah, I for­got,” said Har­ry . “You’d bet­ter get straight on the train, all of you, you’ve on­ly got a few min­utes to go,” said Mrs. Weasley .
Dra­co Mal­foy giv­en his moth­er the slip and I want­ed to know why . “Of course you did,” said Mr. Weasley, sound­ing re­signed .
Mr. Weasley doubts whether YouKnowWho would al­low a six­teen-year-old . “I doubt it, to be hon­est, Har­ry,” said Mr. Heasley slow­ly .
Har­ry waved un­til the train had turned a cor­ner and Mr. and Mrs. Weasley were lost to view, then turned to see where the oth­ers had got to . He sup­posed Ron and Hermione were clois­tered in the pre­fects’ car­riage, but Gin­ny was a lit­tle way along the cor­i­dor, chat­ting to some friends . They even pressed
Har­ry felt a strange twinge of an­noy­an­ce as she walked away, her long red hair danc­ing be­hind her; he had al­most for­got­ten that Gin­ny did not hang around with him, Ron, and Hermione while at school . Then he blinked and looked around: a round­faced boy strug­gling to­ward him . “Hel­lo, Har
“Be­cause we’re with you!” said Neville as he hoist­ed his trunk in­to the lug­gage rack . “Yes, I thought Gran would be an­gry about all the pub­lic­ity,” Neville said .
Lu­na of­ten said she was squirm­ing mix­ture of pity and em­bar­rass­ment . “You ask him!” No, you! “I’ll do it!” And a bold­looking girl with large dark eyes, a pro­mi­nent chin pushed her way through the door .
“No of them was at the Min­istry. They didn’t fight with me.” “That’s a very nice thing to say,” beamed Lu­na . “You did. You should hear my gran talk about you,” Neville said .
Neville's moth­er would have died to save him, as Lily had died for Har­ry? Would there have been no “Cho­sen One” at all? “You look fun­ny,” said Neville .
Ron long­ing­ly, slump­ing in­to the seat be­side Har­ry and rub­bing his stom­ach . It was not like Mal­foy to pass up the chance to de­mon­strate his pow­er as pre­fect . “Maybe he pre­ferred the In­quisi­to­ri­al Squad,” said Hermione .
Neville Long­bot­tom and Har­ry PPot­ter were holding out two scrolls of parch­ment tied with vi­olet rib­bon . In­vi­ta­tion was ex­pect­ing de­ten­tion, but he had no proof that his hunch was cor­rect .
Cho Chang dart­ed in to her com­part­ment when she saw Har­ry . She saw her deep in de­ter­mined con­ver­sa­tion with her friend Ma­ri­et­ta . When they reached C, they saw at once that they were not Slughorn’s on­ly in­vi­tees .
Har­ry and Neville sat down op­po­site each oth­er in the on­ly two emp­ty seats, which were near­est the door . “Blaise Zabi­ni is in your year, of course –“ Slughorn said . He rec­og­nized a Slytherin from their year .
Gin­ny gri­maced at Har­ry and Neville from be­hind Slughorn’s back . “... and this charm­ing young la­dy tells me she knows you!” Bel­by fin­ished .
“I doubt he in­vent­ed the Wolfs­bane Po­tion with­out con­sid­erable hard work!” said Bel­by . “Er... he and my dad don’t get on very well, you see, so I don't re­al­ly know much about...” His voice tailed away as Slughorn turned to McLaggen .
Neville’s par­ents, well­known Au­rors, had been tor­tured in­to in­san­ity by Bel­la­trix Lestrange and a cou­ple of Death Eater cronies . Har­ry had the im­pres­sion that Slughorn was re­serv­ing judg­ment on Neville, yet to see whether he had any of his parents’ flair . “And now,” said S
Zabi­ni gave a tiny lit­tle cough that was clear­ly sup­posed to in­di­cate amused skep­ti­cism . An an­gry voice burst out from be­hind Slughorn .
“Any­way,” said Slughorn, turn­ing back to Har­ry . There seems lit­tle doubt, giv­en the num­ber of wit­ness­es, that there was quite a distur­bance at the Min­istry and that you were there in the thick of it all!” .
Har­ry had the dis­tinct im­pres­sion that Slughorn had not fin­ished with him, and that he had not been con­vinced by Neville and Gin­ny . The af­ter­noon wore on with more anec­dotes about il­lus­tri­ous wiz­ards he taught, all of whom had been de­light­ed to join what he called the “Slug Club” at Hog
Har­ry, Gin­ny, and Neville fol­lowed Zabi­ni back along the train . “You re­mem­ber that id­iot from Huf­flepuff who was in the D.A.? He kept on and on asking about what hap­pened at the Min­istry .
Zabi­ni was going to reen­ter the Slytherin six­thyear com­part­ment . Mal­foy would be sitting there, think­ing him­self un­heard by any­body ex­cept fel­low SLYtherins . If Har­ry could on­ly be­hind him, what might he not see or hear?
Near­ly ev­ery­one had re­turned to their car­riages to change in­to their school robes and pack up their pos­ses­sions . Har­ry was not quick enough to slip into the com­part­ment when Zabi­ni opened the door .
Har­ry dart­ed in­to the com­part­ment, leapt on­to Zabi­ni’s tem­po­rar­ily emp­ty seat . Goyle slammed the door shut and flung it open, hard . He snarled over side­ways in to Gre­go­ry Goyles’ lap .
Vin­cent Crabbe lay curled un­com­fort­ably un­der the cloak to en­­sure that ev­ery inch of him re­mained hid­den . Har­ry watched Pan­sy stroke the sleek blond hair off Mal­foy’s fore­head, smirk­ing as she did so .
Mal­foy sat up very sud­den­ly, knock­ing Pan­sy’s hand aside . “... and Long­bot­tom, Pot­ter, and that Weasley girl,” fin­ished Zabi­ni .
Mal­foy sank back across her lap and al­lowed her to re­sume the stroking of his hair . “I wouldn’t bank on an in­vi­ta­tion,” said Pan­sy .
Mal­foy yawned os­ten­ta­tious­ly . “What do you mean, you might not be at Hog­warts next year?” said Pan­sy .
Moth­er wants me to com­plete my ed­uca­tion, but per­son­al­ly, I don’t see it as that im­por­tant these days . It’ll be all about the kind of ser­vice he re­ceived, the lev­el of de­vo­tion he was shown . “I’ve just said, haven’t I? Maybe he doesn’t care if I’m
Har­ry seemed to de­cide that he had imag­in­ed the noise . He pulled on his robes like the oth­ers, locked his trunk, and fas­tened a thick new trav­el­ing cloak round his neck . At last, with a fi­nal lurch, the train came to a com­plete halt .
Peo­ple were fil­ing past, de­scend­ing on­to the dark plat­form . Mal­foy moved over to the com­part­ment door and let down the blinds . Har­ry peered down over the edge of the lug­gage rack, his heart pump­ing a lit­tle faster .
Har­ry felt his nose break; blood spurt­ed ev­ery­where . “I don’t reck­on they’ll find you till the trains back in Lon­don,” Mal­foy said qui­et­ly . He lay there be­neath the In­vis­ibil­ity Cloak feel­ing the blood .
Har­ry had nev­er hat­ed Mal­foy more than as he lay there, like an ab­surd tur­tle on its back, sick­en­ing­ly in­to his open mouth . He could hear the scrap­ing of trunks and loud bab­ble of talk . Ron and Hermione would think that he had left the train with­out them .
Har­ry Pot­ter de­spised him­self slight­ly for hop­ing it . A feel­ing of hope­less­ness spread through him as he imag­in­ed the con­voy of thes­tral­drawn car­riages trundling up to the school and the muf­led yells of laugh­ter is­su­ing . The train lurched, caus­ing him to roll over on­to
Har­ry hur­ried af­ter her in­to the cor­ri­dor . He fol­lowed her, stag­gered a little on land­ing, then straightened up in time to see the gleam­ing scarlet steam en­gine pick up speed . The cold night air was sooth­ing on his throb­bing nose .
Har­ry’s nose felt very hot, and then very cold . He raised a hand and felt gin­ger­ly . “You’d bet­ter put that cloak back on, and we can walk up to the school,” said Tonks .
Har­ry looked side­ways at Tonks un­der his cloak . Last year she had been in­quis­itive (to the point of be­ing a lit­tle an­noy­ing at times) she had laughed eas­ily, she had made jokes . Now she seemed old­er and much more se­ri­ous and pur­pose­ful . He re­flect­ed un­com­fort­ably
Har­ry saw the tall pil­lars on ei­ther side of the gates, each topped with a winged boar . He was cold, he was hun­gry and was keen to leave this new, gloomy Tonks be­hind . But when he put out a hand to push open the gates he found them chained shut .
Har­ry was so pleased to see it he felt he could even en­dure Filch’s wheezy crit­icisms of his tar­di­ness and rants about how his time­keep­ing would im­prove with the reg­ular ap­pli­ca­tion of thumb­screws . “Well, well, well,” sneered Snape, tak­ing out his wand and tap­ping the pad­
“I think you were bet­ter off with the old one,” said Snape, the mal­ice in his voice un­mis­tak­able . Har­ry saw, fleet­ing­ly, a look of shock and anger on Tonks’s face .
Har­ry felt as though his body was gen­er­at­ing waves of ha­tred so pow­erful that it seemed in­cred­ible that Snape could not feel them burn­ing him . Snape had placed him­self for­ev­er and ir­re­vo­ca­bly be­yond the pos­si­bil­ity of Harry’s for­give­ness by his at­ti­tude to­ward Sir
Har­ry re­mained silent, though he thought his chest might ex­plode . He knew that Snape had come to fetch him for this, for the few min­utes . They reached the cas­tle steps at last and as the great oak­en front doors swung open in­to the Great Hail .
Har­ry, how­ev­er, walked so fast that he was pass­ing the Huf­flepuff ta­ble be­fore peo­ple re­al­ly start­ed to stare . He had spot­ted Ron and Hermione, sped along the bench­es to­ward them, and forced his way in be­tween them . “Why, what’s wrong with it?” said Ron, gog­g
“Not now, Hermione,” said Har­ry, in a dark­ly sig­nif­icant voice . He hoped very much that they would all as­sume he had been involved in some­thing hero­ic, pre­fer­ably in­volv­ing a cou­ple of Death Eaters and a de­men­tor .
Ron be­tween fren­zied mouth­fuls of gateau . “Bumped in­to him,” said Har­ry eva­sive­ly .
Har­ry looked up at the staff ta­ble and grinned at Ha­grid . He had nev­er quite man­aged to com­port him­self with the dig­ni­ty of Pro­fes­sor McG­ona­gall . She looked as odd as ev­er, glit­tering with beads and trail­ing shawls .
Har­ry had been shocked to dis­cov­er at the end of the pre­vi­ous term . The knowl­edge made him even less ea­ger to find him­self in her com­pa­ny . This year he would be dropping Div­ina­tion .
What he would give to fight Mal­foy oneonone . What would he give to combat Mal­Foy Oneonone...
“To know what re­al­ly hap­pened at the Min­istry,” said Har­ry. “Him and ev­ery­one else here,” sniffed Hermione. “There has been much talk on that very sub­ject even amongst the ghosts,” in­ter­rupt­ed Near­ly Head­less Nick. ‘I am con­sid­ered some­thing of a Pot­ter au­thor­ity; it is
“Once again, you show all the sen­si­tiv­ity of a blunt axe,” said Near­ly Head­less Nick in af­front­ed tones . “The very best of evenings to you!” he said, smil­ing broad­ly, his arms opened wide as though to em­brace the whole room .
“It looks as if it’s died,” said Ron and Hermione . “There are some in­ju­ries you can’t cure... old curs­es...and there are poi­sons with­out an­ti­dotes.” “...and Mr. Filch, our care­tak­er, has asked me to say that there is a blan­ket ban on any joke items bought at the shop called Weasleys’ Wiz­ard Whe
“No!” said Har­ry, so loud­ly that many heads turned in his di­rec­tion . He was star­ing up at the staff ta­ble, in­censed . “Har­ry!” said Hermione, shocked and reproach­ful .
Har­ry, Ron, and Hermione were not the on­ly ones who had been talking­ing . The whole Hall had erupt­ed in a buzz of con­ver­sa­tion at the news Snape had fi­nal­ly achieved his heart’s de­sire .
I urge you, there­fore, to abide by any se­cu­ri­ty re­stric­tions that you teach­ers might im­pose up­on you, how­ev­er irk­some you might find them . I am­plore you, should you no­tice any­thing strange or sus­pi­cious with­in or out­side the cas­tle, to report it to a mem­ber of staff im­
Har­ry lagged be­hind, pre­tend­ing to retie the lace on his train­er . It was a mark of the strength of their friendship that Ron did not laugh . “I saw Mal­foy mim­ing some­thing to do with a nose,” he said dark­ly .
Har­ry looked over his shoul­der to see Hagtid shak­ing his head . “Yeah, well, tha’s Dum­ble­dore, in­nit?” said Ha­grid mys­te­ri­ous­ly .
Har­ry and Ron looked at each oth­er . Ron could tell that Ron was ex­pe­ri­enc­ing the same sink­ing feel­ing as him­self . “You’re not tak­ing Care of Mag­ical Crea­tures, are you?” Ron shook his head .
“I don’t know. It would be like Mal­foy to make him­self seem more im­por­tant than he is... but that’s a big lie to tell...” Ron snapped at a par­tic­ular­ly mi­nus­cule firstyear boy as they joined the queue to climb out of the por­trait hole . The boy, who had been mut­ter­ing some­thing about Har­ry be­hind his hand to his friend
“Fanged Fris­bees banned, hand it over,” she told him stern­ly . “Ex­cel­lent, I’ve al­ways want­ed one of these.” Hermione’s re­mon­stra­tion was drowned by a loud gig­gle .
No­body in their year would want to con­tin­ue Care of Mag­ical Crea­tures . They avoided Ha­grid’s eye and re­turned his cheery wave on­ly half­heart­ly when he left the staff ta­ble ten min­utes lat­er . The dis­tri­bu­tion of class schedules was more com­pli­cat­ed than usu­al this year .
Hermione was cleared to con­tin­ue with Charms, De­fense Against the Dark Arts, Trans­fig­ura­tion, Her­bol­ogy, Arith­man­cy, An­cient Runes, and Po­tions . Pro­fes­sor McG­ona­gall looked down his ap­pli­ca­tion and then con­sult­ed his O.W.L re­s
“I’m sor­ry, Long­bot­tom, but I can­not let you in­to my N.E.W.T. class,” mum­bled Neville . “My grand­moth­er thinks Charms is a soft op­tion,” said Pro­fes­sor McG­ona­gall .
Pro­fes­sor McG­ona­gall turned next to Par­vati Patil, whose first ques­tion was whether Firen­ze, the hand­some cen­taur, was still teaching Div­ina­tion . “The sixth year is be­ing tak­en by Pro­ofes-sor Trelawney,” said Pro­Fessor Patil. “I thought it was your am­bi­tion to be­
Pro­fes­sor Snape, how­ev­er, is per­fect­ly hap­py to ac­cept N.E.W.T. stu­dents with ‘Ex­ceeds Ex­pec­ta­tions’ . “Very well, Pot­ter, here is your sched­ule. Oh, by the way- twen­ty hope­fuls have al­ready put down their names for the Gry
Ron looked a lit­tle un­com­fort­able and be­gan play­ing with the Fanged Fris­bee Hermione . It zoomed around the com­mon room, snarling and at­tempt­ing to take bites of the tapestry . “We got so much home­work for Runes,” she said anx­ious­ly .
Si­lence fell over the queue im­me­di­ate­ly . Har­ry looked around as they en­tered . Snape had im­posed his per­son­al­ity up­on the room al­ready .
“I shall be even more sur­prised if all of you man­age to keep up with the N.E.W.T. work, which will be more ad­vanced.” Snape set off around the edge of the room, speak­ing now in a low­er voice . “The Dark Arts,” said Snape, “are many, var­ied, ev­er­chang­ing, and eter­nal. You are fighting­ing that which
“Your de­fens­es,” said Snape, a lit­tle loud­er, “must there­fore be as flex­ible and in­ven­tive as the arts you seek to un­do” . he waved a hand to­ward a witch who was clear­ly shriek­ing in agony - “feel the De­men­tor’s Kiss” - a wiz­ard ly­ing 
Hermione: “Your ad­ver­sary has no warn­ing about what kind of mag­ic you’re about to per­form” . “An an­swer copied al­most word for word from The Stan­dard Book of Spells, Grade Six” said Snape dis­mis­sive­ly . He re­fused to drop his gaze, but glow­ered at Snape un­til Snape looked away .
Har­ry had taught at least half the class how to per­form a Shield Charm the pre­vi­ous year . None of them had ev­er cast the charm with­out speak­ing . Some peo­ple were mere­ly whis­per­ing the in­can­ta­tion in­stead of say­ing it aloud . Typ­ical­ly, ten min­utes in­to the Les­son Hermione man­aged
Sev­er­al peo­ple gasped, in­clud­ing Hermione . “That was brilliant, Har­ry!” chor­tled Ron, once they were safe­ly on their way .
Har­ry was so disarmed that she had thought his words as well worth mem­oriz­ing as The Stan­dard Book of Spells . Jack Slop­er, one of the Beat­ers on last year’s Gryffind­or Quid­ditch team, was hur­ry­ing to­ward him hold­ing a roll of parch­ment . “Oh, right. I was hop­ing it’d be this week­end -“ Har­
Har­ry hur­ried away with Ron and Hermione, un­rolling the parch­ment as he went . “He en­joys Acid Pops?” said Ron, who had read the mes­sage .
He, Ron, and Hermione spent the whole of break spec­ulat­ing on what Dumble­dore would teach Har­ry ad­vanced De­fen­sive mag­ic . They had on­ly just fin­ished when the bell rang for the af­ter­noon’s dou­ble Po­tions and they beat the fa­mil­iar path down to the dun­geon class­room
“Har­ry,” Ernie said por­ten­ously, holding out his hand as Har­ry ap­proached, “didn’t get a chance to speak in De­fense Against The Dark Arts this morn­ing. Good les­son, I thought, but Shield Charms are old hat, of course, for us old D.A. lags .
Har­ry, Ron, and Hermione sniffed in­ter­est­ed­ly as they passed large, bub­bling caul­drons . The four Slytherins chose the one near­est a gold­col­ored caul-dron that was emit­ting one of the most se­duc­tive scents Harry had ev­er in­haled . A great con­tent­ment stole over him; he grinned across at
Slughorn strode over to a cor­ner cup­board and emerged with two very bat­tered­look­ing copies of Ad­vanced Po­tion­Mak­ing by Li­batius Bor­age . He gave Har­ry and Ron two sets of tar­nished scales . You ought to have heard of 'em, even if you haven’t made ‘em yet. Any­one tell me what this one is?
Hermione’s hand hit the air be­fore any­body else’s . “It’s Ver­itaserum, a col­or­less, odor­less po­tion thar forces the drinker to tell the truth,” said Slughorn hap­pi­ly. “Now,” he con­tin­ued, point­ing at the caul­dron near­est the Raven­claw ta­ble .
Hermione Granger turned slight­ly pink and did not com­plete the sen­tence . ‘May I ask your name, my dear?” said Slughorn . “Oho! ‘One of my best friends is Mug­gle­born, and she’s the best in our year!’
“Well, well, take twen­ty wel­learned points for Gryffind­or, Miss Granger,” said Slughorn ge­nial­ly . Hermione turned to Har­ry with a ra­di­ant ex­pres­sion and whis­pered, “Did you re­al­ly tell him I’m the best in the year? Oh, Harry!” .
Fe­lix Fe­li­cis was a lit­tle po­tion with­in mer­ri­ly . It was the col­or of molten gold, and large drops leap­ing like gold­fish above the sur­face . “Oho,” said Slughorn again .
“Why don’t peo­ple drink it all the time, sir?” said Ter­ry Boot ea­ger­ly . “Too much of a good thing, you know,” said Slughorn .
Fe­lix Fe­li­cis is a banned sub­stance in or­ga­nized com­pe­ti­tions . So the win­ner is to use it on an or­di­nary day on­ly . It should be time for you to make a de­cent at­tempt .
Har­ry saw Mal­foy rif­fling fever­ish­ly through his copy of Ad­vanced Po­tion­Mak­ing . To his an­noy­an­ce he saw that the pre­vi­ous own­er had scrib­bled all over the pages, so that the mar­gins were as black as the print­ed por­tions . He hur­ried off to­ward the store cup­board to find what
Ev­ery­one kept glanc­ing around at what the rest of the class was doing . Her po­tion al­ready re­sem­bled the “smooth, black cur­rant­col­ored liq­uid” men­tioned as the ide­al halfway stage . Har­ry bent low over his book again, hav­ing to try and de­ci­pher the di­rec­tions un­
Har­ry crushed his bean with the flat side of the dag­ger . It im­me­di­ate­ly ex­ud­ed so much juice he was amazed the shriv­eled bean could have held it all . Mal­foy would have to re­ly on noth­ing but tal­ent .
Har­ry stirred coun­ter­clock­wise, held his breath, and stirred once clock­wise . The ef­fect was im­me­di­ate. The po­tion turned pale pink .
Across the ta­ble, Ron was curs­ing flu­ent­ly un­der his breath; his po­tion looked like liq­uid licorice . He felt elat­ed, some­thing that had cer­tain­ly nev­er hap­pened be­fore in this dun­geon . “And time’s .. up!” called Slughorn .
Ron slipped the bot­tle of gold­en liq­uid in­to his in­ner pock­et . “Got lucky, I sup­pose,” said Har­ry, be­cause Mal­foy was with­in earshot.
Har­ry knew what was on her mind at once . “It’s not like, you know, Rid­dle’s di­ary. It’s just an old text­book some­one’s scrib­bled on.” “But you’re do­ing what it says?” she said .
“I mean, it re­al­ly does seem to be ... just a text­book.” “Good. Then I’ll have it back,” said Har­ry, snatch­ing it off the ta­ble, but it slipped from his hand and land­ed open on the floor . “I’m going to have the book back,” says Hermione, still star­ing at the book sus­pi­cious­ly .
Nei­ther Ron nor Hermione was de­light­ed by this . Ron had more dif­fi­cul­ty de­ci­pher­ing the hand­writ­ing than Har­ry did . He had skimmed through it to see that there was bare­ly a page on which the Prince had not made ad­di­tion­al notes .
“I think the handwrit­ing looks more like a girl’s than a boy’s,” Har­ry said . “How many girls have been Princes?” Hermione scowled and twitched her es­say on The Prin­ci­ples of Re­ma­te­al­iza­tion .
“Two of spades: con­flict,” she mur­mured, as she passed the place where Har­ry crouched, hid­den . “Well, that can’t be right,” she said, an­noyed, and Har­ries heard her reshuf­fling vig­or­ously as she set off again, leav­ing noth­ing .
“I hope you’ve had an en­joy­able first week back at school?” Har­ry said . “You must have been busy, a de­ten­tion un­der your belt al­ready!” “Er,” be­gan Har–ry awk­ward­ly, but Dum­ble­dore did not look too stern .
“I told you ev­ery­thing I know. From this point forth, we shall be leav­ing the firm foun­da­tion of fact and jour­ney­ing to­geth­er through the murky marsh­es of mem­ory in­to thick­ets of wildest guess­work. From here on in, Har­ry, I may be as woe­ful­ly wrong as Humphrey Belch­er .
Dum­ble­dore walked around the desk, past Har­ry, who turned ea­ger­ly in his seat to watch him bend­ing over the cab­in­et be­side the door . He placed a fa­mil­iar shal­low stone basin etched with odd mark­ings around its rim . “This time, you en­ter the Pen­sieve with me . and, even more un­us
“He died some time ago, but not be­fore I had tracked him down and per­suad­ed him to con­fide these rec­ol­lec­tions to me” But Dum­ble­dore was hav­ing dif­fi­cul­ty pulling out the stop­per of the crys­tal bot­tle . “Sir — how did you in­ju­re your hand?” Har­ry asked again,
Har­ry bent forward took a deep breath, and plunged his face in­to the sil­very sub­stance . He felt his feet leave the of­fice floor; he was falling, falling through whirling dark­ness and then, quite sud­den­ly, was blink­ing in daz­zling sun­light .
ten feet in front of them stood a short, plump man wear­ing enor­mous­ly thick glass­es that re­duced his eyes to mole­like specks . Be­fore Har­ry knew this must be Og­den; he was the on­ly per­son in sight, and was al­so wearing­ing the strange as­sort­ment of clothes so of­ten cho­sen by in­ex­pe­
The lane curved to the left and fell away, slop­ing steeply down a hill­side . Har­ry could see a vil­lage, un­doubt­ly Lit­tle Hangle­ton, nes­tled be­tween two steep hills, its church and grave­yard clear­ly vis­ible .
Dum­ble­dore and Har­ry fol­lowed him on­to a nar­row dirt track bor­dered by high­er and wilder hedgerows than those they had left be­hind . The path was crooked, rocky, and pot­holed, slop­ing down­hill like the last one, and it seemed to be head­ing for a patch of dark trees a lit­tle be­low them .
Og­den leapt backward so fast he stood on the tails of his frock coat and stum­bled . “Er — good morn­ing. I’m from the Min­istry of Mag­ic —” “You’re not wel­come.” The man stood­ing be­fore them had thick hair so mat­ted with dirt it could have been any col­or .
“Why can’t Og­den — ?” said Dum­ble­dore qui­et­ly . “He’s speaking­ing Parsel­tongue?” “Very good,” said Har­ry . The man in rags was now ad­vanc­ing .
“Got you in the face, did he?” snapped Og­den . “Should’ve made your pres­ence known, shouldn’t you?” said Gaunt ag­gres­sively .
Gaunt squint­ed in­to Og­den’s face and mut­tered, in what was clear­ly sup­posed to be an of­fen­sive tone . “I don’t doubt it, if your son’s been let loose on them,” said Gau­den .
The house seemed to con­tain three tiny rooms . Two doors led off the main room, which served as kitchen and liv­ing room . There was a scuf­fling noise in the cor­ner be­side the open win­dow .
Merope screamed, “Mend it, you pointless lump, mend it!” Gaunt bel­lowed at her . “That’s it, grub on the floor like some filthy Mug­gle, what’s your wand for, you use­less sack of muck?” . The pot mend­ed it­self in­stant­ly.
Gaunt jeered at his daugh­ter, “Lucky the nice man from the Min­istry’s here, isn’t it? Per­haps he doesn’t mind dirty Squibs.” Merope picked up the pot and re­turned it, hands trem­bling, to its shelf . “Morfin has bro­ken Wiz­ard­ing law,” said Og­den stern­ly. “‘He taught a filthy
“I’m Head of the Mag­ical Law En­force­ment Squad,” said Og­den . “And you think we’re scum, do you?” screamed Gaunt .
Har­ry thought he was going to throt­tle her as his hand flew to her throat . He was drag­ging her to­ward Og­den by a gold chain around her neck . “I see it, I see it!” said Gaunt hasti­ly. “Salazar Slytherin’s! We’re his last liv­ing de­scen­dants, what do you say to that, eh?” yelled
“Mr. Gaunt,” said Og­den . “I am here be­cause of Morfin, MorFin and the Mug­gle he ac­cost­ed late last night . He glanced down at his scroll of parch­ment, caus­ing him to erupt in high­ly painful hives.” “Be qui­et, boy.” “And so what if he did, then?” snarled Gaundt in
“This dis­cus­sion is getting us nowhere,” said Og­den firm­ly . “Morfin will at­tend a hear­ing on the four­teenth of Septem­ber to an­swer the charges of us­ing mag­ic in front of a Mug­gle and caus­ing harm and dis­tress to that same Mugg —” He broke off . The jin­gling, clop­ping sounds of hor
“‘Dar­ling,’’ whis­pered Morfin in Parsel­tongue, look­ing at his sis­ter . Merope was so white Har­ry felt sure she was going to faint . “What’s that?” said Gaunt sharply .
Gaunt shook her head fran­ti­cal­ly, press­ing her­self in­to the wall, ap­par­ently un­able to speak . “I got him as he went by and he didn’t look so pret­ty with hives all over him!” cack­led Morfin . Og­den raised his wand and cried, “Relaskio!” at the same time .
Gaunt tripped over a chair and fell flat on his back . Morfin ran at Og­den, bran­dish­ing his knife and fir­ing hex­es in­dis­crim­inate­ly from his wand . Merope’s screams echo­ing in his ears .
Morfin and his fa­ther at­tempt­ed to fight, but both were over­pow­ered . Mar­vo­lo, who had in­ju­red sev­er­al Min­istry em­ploy­ees in ad­di­tion to Og­den, re­ceived six months . “Oh, she sur­vived,” said Dum­ble­dore .
Mar­vo­lo, his son, Morfin, and his daugh­ter, Merope, were the last of the Gaunts . Lack of sense cou­pled with a great lik­ing for grandeur meant that the fam­ily gold was squan­dered sev­er­al gen­er–ations be­fore Mar­vlo was born . “so merope,” said Har­ry, lean­
“I think you are for­get­ting,” said Dum­ble­dore, un­able to imag­ine two peo­ple less like­ly to fall in love . “I do not be­lieve that her mag­ical pow­ers ap­peared to their best ad­van­tage when she was be­ing ter­ror­ized by her fa­ther .
Lit­tle Hangle­ton en­joyed a tremen­dous scan­dal . He re­turned from Azk­aban, ex­pect­ing to find his daugh­ter . The shock of her de­ser­tion may have con­trib­ut­ed to his ear­ly death .
“Yes, in­deed,” said Dum­ble­dore . “We must do a cer­tain amount of guess­ing here, al­though I do not think it is dif­fi­cult to de­duce what hap­pened” The ru­mor flew around the neigh­bor­hood that he was talking­ing ‘hood­winked’ and ‘tak­en in’ .
“I be­lieve that Merope could not bear to con­tin­ue en­slav­ing him by mag­ical means,” said Dum­ble­dore . “I think that will do for tonight, sir,” said Har­ry . He got to his feet, but did not leave .
“No, sir, I’ll make sure it’s just Ron and Hermione. Good night.” He turned away again, and was al­most at the door when he saw it . “You were wearing it when we vis­it­ed Pro­fes­sor Slughorn that night,” Dum­ble­dore agreed .
Har­ry bare­ly un­der­stood half of what Pro­fes­sor McG­ona­gall said to them these days . Even Hermione had had to ask her to re­peat in­struc­tions once or twice . Harry’s best sub­ject had sud­den­ly be­come Po­tions, thanks to the Half-Blood Prince .
Non­ver­bal spells were ex­pect­ed, not on­ly in De­fense Against the Dark Arts, but in Charms and Trans­fig­ura­tion too . Har­ry fre­quent­ly looked over at his class­mates in the com­mon room or at meal­times to see them pur­ple in the face and strain­ing as though they had over­dosed on UN­oPoo .
“We’ve got Quid­ditch try­outs this morn­ing!” said Ron . “I hate not talk­ing to Ha­grid,” said Hermione . He felt slight­ly ner­vous at con­fronting the first hur­dle .
The whole Wiz­ard­ing world has had to ad­mit that you were right about Volde­mort be­ing back and that you re­al­ly have fought him twice in the last two years . And now they’re calling­ing you ‘the Cho­sen One’ . “And you’ve been through all that per­se­cu­tion from the Min­istry when they were trying to make out you were un­sta­ble and a l
Har­ry had re­ceived no mail since the start of term; his on­ly reg­ular cor­re­spon­dent was now dead . A mo­ment lat­er, an iden­ti­cal pack­age land­ed in front of Ron, crush­ing it his mi­nus­cule and ex­hausted owl, Pig­wid­geon . “Oh good,” said Hermione, de­light­e
He pulled the old copy of Advanced Po­tion­Mak­ing out of his bag . He swapped the cov­ers, tapped each, and said, “Reparo!” There sat the Prince’s copy, dis­guised as a new book . “Any­one we know dead?” asked Ron in a de­ter­mined­ly ca­su­al voice .
“Stan Shun­pike, a Death Eater?” said Har­ry, re­mem­ber­ing the spot­ty youth he had first met three years be­fore . “You nev­er can tell.” “It doesn’t look like it,” said Hermione .
“They prob­ably want to look as though they’re doing some­thing,” said Hermione . “Hog­warts is safer than their homes, bound to be! We’ve got Au­rors, and all those ex­tra pro­tective spells,” said Ron .
Laven­der Brown and Par­vati Patil were whis­per­ing to­geth­er . Har­ry looked cold and dis­tant all the way down to the sta­di­um . Ron blinked at her, then re­turned the smile un­cer­tain­ly . His walk in­stant­ly be­came some­thing more .
Half of Gryffind­or House seemed to have turned up, from first years who were ner­vous­ly clutch­ing a se­lec­tion of the dread­ful old school brooms to sev­enth years who tow­ered over the rest . Har­ry rec­og­nized im­me­di­ate­ly from the Hog­warts Ex­press .
Har­ry de­cid­ed to start with a ba­sic test, asking all ap­pli­cants for the team to di­vide in­to groups of ten and fly once around the pitch . The first ten was made up of first years, and it could not have been plain­er that they had hard­ly ev­er flown be­fore . Romil­da Vane was amongst them when he told them to leave the pitch
Har­ry had found him­self three Chasers: Katie Bell and Demelza Robins . Gin­ny Weasley had out­flown all the com­pe­ti­tion and scored sev­en­teen goals to boot . “If you don’t get out of the way of the Keep­ers I’ll hex you,” he bel­lowed .
Jim­my Peakes, a short but broad­chest­ed thirdyear boy, had man­aged to raise a lump the size of an egg on the back of Harry’s head with a fe­ro­cious hit Bludger . Ritchie Coote, who looked weedy but aimed well, joined Katie, Demelza, and Gin­ny in the stands to watch the se­lec­tion of their last team mem­ber 
Cor­mac McLaggen saved four pe­nal­ties out of five . On the last one, how­ev­er, he shot off in com­plete­ly the wrong di­rec­tion . Har­ry looked ready to pass out as he mount­ed his Clean­sweep Eleven .
McLaggen's Keep­er, he won it fair and square. Get out of my way,” said Har­ry . He con­tent­ed him­self with an ug­ly gri­mace and stormed away . This time it re­al­ly was Hermione run­ning to­ward them from the stands .
Buck­beak was tethered in front of Ha­grid’s cab­in . He clicked his ra­zor­sharp beak at their ap­proach and turned his huge head to­ward them . “Oh dear,” said Hermione ner­vous­ly .
Ha­grid had come strid­ing around the cor­ner of his cab­in wearing a large flow­ery apron and car­ry­ing a sack of pota­toes . “Git away from him! He’ll have yer fin­gers — oh. It’s yeh lot.” Fang was jump­ing up at Hermione and Ron, at­tempt­ing to lick their ears .
“I’m sorry, sir” said Har­ry, em­pha­siz­ing the last word as he stowed his wand in­side his robes . “Since when have you called me ‘Pot­ter’?” “Oh, very clever,” growled Ha­grid. “Very amusin’. That’s me out­smart­ed, in­nit? All righ’, come
Fi­nal­ly he slammed down three buck­et­sized mugs of ma­hogany­brown tea in front of them and a plate of his rock cakes . “Ha­grid,” said Hermione timid­ly, when he joined them at the ta­ble and started­ing peel­ing his pota­toes with a bru­tal­ity that sug­gest­ed that each tu
“I got ‘em ter feed ter Ar­agog.” And with­out warn­ing, he burst in­to tears. “Ha­grid!” cried Hermione, leap­ing up, hur­ry­ing around the ta­ble the long way to avoid the bar­rel of mag­gots, and putting an arm around his shak­ing shoul­ders . “I think he’s dyin’
Hermione looked at a com­plete loss for any­thing to say . He had known Ha­grid to present a vi­cious ba­by drag­on, seen him croon over gi­ant scor­pi­ons with suck­ers and stingers, at­tempt to rea­son with his bru­tal gu­ant of a half­brother, but this was per­haps the most in­com­
nei­ther Har­ry nor Ron had shown any in­cli­na­tion to feed gi­ant grubs to a mur­der­ous, gar­gan­tu­an spi­der . “Ar, I al­ways knew yeh’d find it hard ter squeeze me in­ter yer timeta­bles,” Ha­grid said gruffly .
Cor­mac McLaggen en­ter­ing the Great Hall . It took him two at­tempts to get through the doors; he ric­ocheted off the frame . “Oh, all right then, I did it,” Hermione blushed .
Har­ry and Hermione to­geth­er hur­ried af­ter Ron . The smell of roast beef made Harry’s stom­ach ache with hunger . They had bare­ly tak­en three steps to­ward the Gryffind­or ta­ble .
“Oh dear!” said Slughorn, his face falling com­ical­ly . He bus­tled away out of the Hall . “He’s got no chance of per­suad­ing Snape,” said Har­ry .
Hermione opened the news­pa­per and was scan­ning the in­side pages . “Oh, look, your dad’s in here, Ron — he’s all right!” she added quick­ly . ‘This sec­ond search of the Death Eaters res­idence does not seem to have yield­ed any re­sults.’” “Yeah, mine!” said Har­ry .
Har­ry watched Gin­ny Weasley play­ing with Arnold the Pygmy Puff . “All the owls are be­ing checked too,” said Hermione . There did not seem to be any way Mal­foy could have brought a dan­ger­ous or Dark ob­ject in­to the school .
Harry Potter and the Half-Blood Prince Chapter 12: Silver and opals Where was Dum­ble­dore, and what was he doing­ing? Har­ry caught sight of the head­mas­ter on­ly twice over the next few weeks . He had said that the lessons were lead­ing to some­thing to do with the prophecy .
Half-Blood Princes copy of Ad­vanced Po­tion­Mak­ing qual­ified as a text­book . Har­ry woke ear­ly on the morn­ing of the trip, which was prov­ing stormy . He did not lie in bed reading­ing his text­books; that sort of be­hav­ior, as Ron right­ly said, was in­de­cent in any­body ex­cept Hermione
Har­ry had tried Muf­flia­to, a spell that filled the ears of any­one near­by with an uniden­ti­fi­able buzzing . There were many cross­in­gsout and al­ter­ations, but fi­nal­ly, crammed in­to a cor­ner of the page, the scrib­ble: Lev­icor­pus .
Har­ry was hav­ing dif­fi­cul­ty with non­ver­bal spells . On the oth­er hand, the Prince had proved a much more ef­fec­tive teach­er than Snape so far .
Ron groped for the po­tion book and de­ci­phered the cramped word un­der­neath the spell: Pray­ing that this was the coun­ter­jinx . “Sor­ry,” re­peat­ed Har­ry weak­ly, while Dean and Sea­mus con­tin­ued to roar with laugh­ter . By the time they had got dressed, padded them out with sev­
“Why does it mat­ter if it’s hand­writ­ten?” said Har­ry, pre­fer­ring not to an­swer the rest of the ques­tion . “Be­cause it's prob­ably not Min­istry of Mag­ic ap­proved,” said Hermione .
Har­ry had seen his fa­ther use the spell on Snape, but he had nev­er told Ron and Hermione about that par­tic­ular ex­cur­sion in­to the Pen­sieve . He’s not the on­ly one. We’ve seen a whole bunch of peo­ple use it, in case you’ve for­got­ten. Dan­gling them in the air. Mak­ing them float along, asleep, help
“I don’t see where you get that from,” said Har­ry sar­cas­ti­cal­ly . “The Death Eaters can’t all be pure­blood, there aren’t enough pure­ blood wiz­ards left,” said Hermione stub­born­ly. “There is no way they’d let me be a Death Eater!” said Ron in­dig­nant­ly, a bit of sausage fly­ing off the fork
Har­ry told Ron and Hermione, pulling open the parch­ment and quick­ly reading its con­tents . “Want to join us in Hogsmeade, Gin­ny?” he asked. “I’m go­ing with Dean — might see you there,” she replied .
Ron pointed to Hon­ey­dukes, which was mer­ci­ful­ly open, and Har­ry and Hermione stag­gered in his wake in­to the crowd­ed shop . “Harry, m’boy!” said a boom­ing voice from be­hind them . Pro­fes­sor Slughorn was wearing an enor­mous fur­ry hat and an over­coat with match­ing fur col
“Well, I’ve had Quid­ditch prac­tice, Pro­fes­sor,” said Har­ry . “So why don’t you come along,” de­mand­ed Slughorn . Ron was not left out, and they usu­al­ly had a laugh .
“I can’t be­lieve you’ve wrig­gled out of an­oth­er one,” said Hermione, shak­ing her head . “They’re not that bad, you know. They’re even quite fun some­times.” But then she caught sight of Ron’s ex­pres­sion .
Har­ry rec­og­nized the bar­man who worked in the Hog’s Head pub . He drew his cloak more tight­ly around his neck and walked away . The squat, bandy­legged man with long, strag­gly, gin­ger hair jumped and dropped an an­cient suit­case .
Har­ry had pinned Mundun­gus against the wall of the pub by the throat . “I — no — what — ?” squealed Hermione, who was slow­ly turning­ing pur­ple .
Mundun­gus seized his fall­en case, then CRACK he Dis­ap­rat­ed . Har­ry swore at the top of his voice, spin­ning on the spot to see where he had gone . “He’s nicked Sir­ius’s stuff! Nicked it!” “Yes, but still,” said Tonks .
Har­ry de­mand­ed of the oth­er two in a fu­ri­ous whis­per . “Can’t they at least stop him steal­ing ev­ery­thing that’s not fixed down when he’s at head­quar­ters?” Hermione said .
Ron sip­ing his drink in what he con­sid­ered to be a dig­ni­fied si­lence . Hermione drummed her fin­gers on the ta­ble, her eyes flick­er­ing . The mo­ment Har­ry drained the last drops in his bot­tle she said, “Shall we call it a day and go back to school, then?” The oth­er two nod­de
Har­ry squint­ed at their in­dis­tinct fig­ures . The two girls were hav­ing an ar­gu­ment about some­thing Katie was holding in her hand . Katie rose in­to the air, not as Ron had done, sus­pend­ly by the an­kle .
Katie let out a ter­ri­ble scream six feet above the ground . Her eyes flew open but what­ev­er she could see was clear­ly caus­ing her an­guish . Har­ry, Ron, and Hermione rushed for­ward to help, but even as they grabbed Katie’s legs, she fell on top of them . In­stead they low­ered her to the ground where she thrashed .
“Some­one’s been cursed!” said Ha­grid, bend­ing low­er to hear what Har­ry was saying­ing over the rag­ing wind . It took them no time to find the lit­tle group of peo­ple around Katie, who was still writhing and scream­ing on the ground . Ron, Hermione, and Leanne were trying­ing to qui­et her .
Ron bent down, his hand out­stretched, but Har­ry seized his arm and pulled him back . “Don’t touch it!” He crouched down . An or­nate opal neck­lace was vis­ible, pok­ing out of the pa­per .
Har­ry hes­itat­ed for a mo­ment, then pulled his scarf from around his face and, ig­nor­ing Ron’s gasp, care­fully cov­ered the neck­lace in it and picked it up . “We’ll need to show this to Madam Pom­frey,” he said .
“Good lord,” said Pro­fes­sor McG­ona­gall . “No, no, Filch, they’re with me!” she added hasti­ly .
Leanne told Pro­fes­sor McG­ona­gall how Katie had gone to the bath­room and re­turned hold­ing the un­marked pack­age . She was so over­come, there was no get­ting an­oth­er word out of her . The head­mas­ter is away un­til Mon­day, Pot­ter .
Pro­fes­sor McG­ona­gall did not in­vite con­fi­dences; Dum­ble­dore seemed less like­ly to scorn a the­ory, how­ev­er wild . On one side of him, Ron rubbed his nose in ap­par­ent em­bar­rass­ment; on the oth­er, Hermione shuf­fled her
“No, Pro­fes­sor, he just wanted­ed Bor­gin to tell him how to mend some­thing . But that’s not the point, the thing is that he bought some­what at the same time, and I think it was that neck­lace,” in­ter­ject­es Ron.
“Oh, Ron,” said Hermione de­spair­ing­ly, “it would be all wrapped up, so he wouldn’t have to touch it, and quite easy to hide in­side a cloak, so no­body would see it! I asked Bor­gin about the neck­lace, don’t you re­mem­ber? And when I went in to try and find out what Mal­foy had asked him to keep, I saw it there .
“We have put strin­gent se­cu­ri­ty mea­sures in place this year,” said Pro­fes­sor McG­ona­gall . “Mr. Mal­foy was not in Hogsmeade to­day,” Har­ry said .
Dum­ble­dore reck­ons Volde­mort re­al­ly want­ed him . “Or you,” said Hermione, look­ing trou­bled . It would have made much more sense to de­liv­er the par­cel out­side Hog­warts .
Katie was re­moved to St. Mun­go’s Hos­pi­tal for Mag­ical Mal­adies and In­ju­ries the follow­ing day . There was no buzz of fear or specula­tion, how­ev­er: Clear­ly, the news of Katie’s fate had not yet spread . “You’re right,” said Hermione, prod­ding Ron out of the chair with her foot .
Har­ry men­tioned his Mal­foy­IsaDeathE­ater the­ory at 8 o’clock . There sat Dum­ble­dore looking un­usu­al­ly tired; his hand was as black and burned as ev­er, but he smiled . “You have had a busy time while I have been away,” he said . Luck­ily Pro­fes­sor Snape
“I would not have per­mit­ted a stu­dent to ques­tion the way Hog­warts op­er­at­ed in my day.” “Yes, thank you, Phineas,” said Dum­ble­dore quelling­ly . “How­ev­er, I shall tell you in due course.” “You will?” said Har­ry, star­tled .
“He has gone to ground since you ac­cost­ed him out­side the Three Broomsticks; I rather think he dreads fac­ing me.” “That mangy old half­blood has been steal­ing Black heirlooms?” said Phineas Nigel­lus, in­censed . “I will take all ap­pro­pri­ate mea­sures to in­ves­ti­gate any­one who might have
Har­ry poured the fresh mem­ories in­to the Pen­sieve and be­gan swirling the stone basin once more be­tween his longfin­gered hands . “How do you know she was in Lon­don, sir?” said Dumble­dore .
Car­ac­ta­cus Burke de­scend­ed back in­to the swirling mass of mem­ory from whence he had come . “He on­ly gave her ten Galleons?” said Har­ry in­dig­nant­ly .
“But she could do mag­ic!” said Har­ry im­pa­tient­ly . “Per­haps she could. But it is my be­lief—I am guess­ing again, but I am sure I am right—that when her hus­band aban­done her, Merope stopped us­ing mag­ica . Of course, it is al­so pos­si­ble that her un­re­quit­ed love and the at­
Al­bus Dum­ble­dore’s long hair and beard were auburn . He strode off along the pave­ment, drawing many cu­ri­ous glances . “Nice suit, sir,” said Har­ry, be­fore he could stop him­self .
Har­ry heard a dis­tant voice shout­ing some­thing in re­sponse . Dum­ble­dore stepped in­to a hall­way tiled in black and white .
Bil­ly Stubbs has been picking his scabs and Er­ic Whal­ley’s ooz­ing all over his sheets . She said to no­body in par­tic­ular, and then her eyes fell up­on Dum­ble­dore and she stopped dead in her tracks . “Good af­ter­noon,” said Dumble­denore, holding­ing out his hand .
Mrs. Cole’s eyes slid out of fo­cus and back again as she gazed in­tent­ly at the blank pa­per . “I have come to offer Tom a place at my school,” said Dumble­dore. “And how come you’re in­ter­est­ed in Tom?”
“Er — may I of­fer you a glass of gin?” she said in an ex­trare­fine voice . Mrs. Cole drained her own glass in one gulp . “I was won­der­ing whether you could tell me any­thing of Tom Rid­dle’s his­to­ry? I think he was born here in the or­phan­age?” she replied .
“Now, as it hap­pens, she did,” said Mrs. Cole . “I hope he looks like his pa­pa,’ and I won’t lie, she was right to hope it, be­cause she was no beau­ty . We won­dered whether she came from a cir­cus — and she said the boy’s sur­name was to be Rid­dle . And she died soon af­ter that with­out an­
“He’s definite­ly got a place at your school, you say?” said Dum­ble­dore . “You’ll be tak­ing him away, what­ev­er?” re­peat­ed Dumble­denore grave­ly . He scares the oth­er chil­dren.” “You mean he is a bul­ly?” asked Dum–ble­dinore. “
Mrs. Cole took an­oth­er swig of gin, slop­ing a lit­tle over her chin this time . She looked around at Dumble­dore again, and though her cheeks were flushed, her gaze was steady . “I don’t think many peo­ple will be sor­ry to see the back of him,” she said .
Har­ry and the two Dumble­dores en­tered the room, and Mrs. Cole closed the door on them . It was a small bare room with noth­ing in it ex­cept an old wardrobe and an iron bed­stead . There was no trace of the Gaunts in Tom Rid­dle’s face .
“I am Pro­fes­sor Dum­ble­dore.” He looked wary . “She wants me looked at, doesn’t she? Tell the truth!” he spoke the last three words with a ringing force .
Pro­fes­sor Dum­ble­dore works at a school called Hog­warts . “I have come to of­fer you a place at my school — your new school, if you would like to come” Rid­dle’s re­ac­tion to this was most sur­pris­ing .
Rid­dle had frozen, his face ex­pres­sion­less, but his eyes were flick­er­ing back and forth be­tween each of Dum­ble­dore’s . “I can make fil­in­gs move with­out touch­ing them. I can make bad things hap­pen to peo­ple who an­noy me.” His legs were trem­bling, his head bowed as though in prayer .
Rid­dle’s ex­pres­sion hard­ened for the most fleet­ing mo­ment be­fore . He said, in an un­rec­og­niz­ably po­lite voice, “I’m sor­ry, sir. I meant — please, Pro­fes­sor, could you show me — ?” he said . “Are you a wiz­ard too?” “Yes, I am.” “Prove it
Dum­ble­dore drew his wand from an in­side pock­et of his suit jacket . Har­ry could hard­ly blame him for howl­ing in shock and rage . The wardrobe burst in­to flames, leav­ing the wardrobe com­plete­ly un­dam­aged .
Rid­dle took down the quak­ing box. He looked un­nerved. “Yes, I sup­pose so, sir,” said Dum­ble­dore . Har­ry, who had ex­pect­ed some­thing much more ex­cit­ing, saw a mess of small, ev­ery­day ob­jects . “You will re­turn them to their own­ers with your apo
Rid­dle said in a col­or­less voice, “Yes, sir.” “At Hog­warts,” Dum­ble­dore went on, “we teach you not on­ly to use mag­ic, but to con­trol it. You have — in­ad­ver­tent­ly, I am sure, . You are not the first, nor will you be the last, to al­low your mag­i­ic to run away with
Dum­ble­dore was ex­am­in­ing a fat gold Galleon, “In Di­agon Al­ley” . “I’m used to do­ing things for my­self, I go round Lon­don on my own all the time,” he said .
Dum­ble­dore hand­ed Rid­dle the en­ve­lope con­tain­ing his list of equip­ment . He said, “You will be able to see it, al­though Mug­gles around you — non­mag­ical peo­ple, that is — will not. Ask for Tom the bar­man — easy enough to re­mem­ber, as he shares your name . “I’m
“All the de­tails are on the sec­ond piece of parch­ment in your en­ve­lope,” said Dum­ble­dore . “You will leave from King’s Cross Sta­tion on the first of Septem­ber. There is a train tick­et in there too.” Rid­dle nod­ded . Har­ry could tell that he had with­held men­tion of this strangest pow­er un­
“I didn’t be­lieve Ha­grid at first, when you told him he was a wiz­ard,” said Har­ry . “Did I know that I had just met the most dan­ger­ous Dark wizz­ard of all time?” said Dum­ble­dore .
‘I can make them hurt if I want to.’” Har­ry said . “And he was a Parsel­mouth,” in­ter­ject­ed Harry . ‘Yes, in­deed; a rare abil­ity,’ and one sup­pos­ing­ly con­nected with the Dark Arts .
“Time is mak­ing fools of us again,” says Dum­ble­dore . “First­ly, I hope you no­ticed Rid­dle’s re­ac­tion when I men­tioned that an­oth­er shared his first name, ‘Tom’?” Har­ry nod­ded . He wished to be dif­fer­ent, sep­arate, no­to­ri­ous 
Lord Volde­mort has nev­er had a friend, nor do I be­lieve that he has ev­er want­ed one . You saw the box of stolen ar­ti­cles he had hid­den in his room . “And now, it re­al­ly is time for bed.” Har­ry got to his feet .
Harry Potter and the Half-Blood Prince Chapter 14: Felix Felicis Har­ry had Herbol­ogy first thing the fol­low­ing morn­ing . The week­end’s bru­tal wind had died out at last; the weird mist had re­turned and it took them a lit­tle longer than usu­al to find the cor­rect green­house . “I still don’t get why Dum­ble­dore
“I think it’s fas­ci­nat­ing,” said Hermione earnest­ly . “So how was Slughorn’s lat­est par­ty?” Har­ry asked her thick­ly through the gum shield .
Hermione gave the other two an ap­pre­hen­sive look; they all took deep breaths and then dived at the gnarled stump be­tween them . It sprang to life at once; long, prick­ly, bramble­like vines flew out of the top and whipped through the air . Har­ry and Ron tugged at the vines, forc­ing the hole to open again .
“You know, I don’t think I’ll be hav­ing any of these in my gar­den when I’ve got my own place,” said Ron, holding the pul­sat­ing pod at arm’s length . Har­ry hand­ed one over and she dropped it in­to it with a look of dis­gust on her face . “Don’t be squeamish, squeeze it out, they're best when they’re fresh!” called Pro­f
The pod flew out from un­der Ron’s fin­gers and hit the green house glass . Har­ry went to re­trieve the pod; when he got back, Hermione was saying­ing, “Look, I didn’t make up the name ‘Slug Club’ . “We’re al­lowed to bring guests,” said Ron, who wished the pod had flown a lit­tle far­ther .
“No, I wouldn’t,” said Ron, in a very qui­et voice . Har­ry missed the pod, hit the bowl, and shat­tered it . ‘”Reparo,”‘ he said hasti­ly .
Ron and Hermione were now too em­bar­rassed to look at each oth­er . What if they split up? How if he be­came ex­cru­ci­at­ing­ly to be in their pres­ence . “Gotcha!” yelled Ron, pulling a sec­ond pod from the stump .
Ron and Hermione did not seem any differ­ent ex­cept that they were a lit­tle po­liter to each oth­er than usu­al . In the mean­time, how­ev­er, he had more press­ing wor­ries . Katie Bell was still in St. Mun­go’s Hos­pi­tal with no prospect of leav­ing .
Dean had out­flown Sea­mus Finnegan at the try­outs . “Well then, you’re in,” said Har­ry . He sprint­ed out of the room, leav­ing Harry and sea­mus to­geth­er .
Sea­mus was not the on­ly per­son dis­grun­tled by the choice of Katie’s sub­sti­tute . As Har­ry had en­dured much worse mut­ter­in­gs than this in his school ca­reer, he was not par­tic­ular­ly both­ered, but all the same, the pres­sure was in­creas­ing to pro­vide a win in the up­com­ing
Gin­ny zigzagged back to the ground, drip­ping blood ev­ery­where . “You prat, Ron, look at the state of her!” Har­ry said . The Chasers and Beat­ers left the chang­ing room look­ing rea­son­ably hap­py .
Dean and Gin­ny were locked in a close em­brace and kiss­ing fierce­ly as though glued to­geth­er . It was as though some­thing large and scaly erupt­ed in­to life in Har­ry’s stom­ach, claw­ing at Dean . “I don’t want to find my own sis­ter snog­ging peo­ple in pub­lic!” said Gin­
“I want a word with my dear broth­er!” Dean left, looking­ing as though he was not sor­ry to de­part the scene . “Right,” said Gin­ny, toss­ing her long red hair out of her face and glar­ing at Ron, “let’s get this straight once and for all. It is none of your busi­ness who I go out with or what I do with them, Ron —” said Ron .
Gin­ny screamed with de­ri­sive laugh­ter, try­ing to push Har­ry out of the way . “Been kiss­ing Pig­wid­geon, have you? Or have you got a pic­ture of Aun­tie Muriel stashed un­der your pil­low?” You .
Ron barked at a small girl who jumped in fright and dropped a bot­tle of toad­spawn . He felt dis­ori­ent­ed, dizzy; be­ing struck by a light­ning bolt must be some­thing like this . You just didn’t like seeing­ing her kiss­ing Dean be­cause she’s Ron’s sis­ter . But un­bid­den in­to his mind came an im­age of
Ron’s sis­ter. She’s out­ofbounds. He would not risk his friendship with Ron for any­thing . He punched his pil­low in­to a more com­fort­able shape and wait­ed for sleep to come, trying his ut­most not to al­low his thoughts to stray any­where near Gin­ny .
Har­ry spent the day at­tempt­ing to keep the peace be­tween Ron and Hermione with no suc­cess . The boys’ dor­mi­to­ry af­ter swear­ing an­gri­ly at sev­er­al frightened first years for look­ing at him . To Harry’s dis­may, Ron’s new ag­gres­sion did not wear off over the next few days .
“You shut up and leave her alone!” shout­ed Peakes . Har­ry had seen Gin­ny glow­er­ing in Ron’s di­rec­tion . “You’re my best mate, but car­ry on treat­ing the rest of them like this and I’m go­ing to kick you off the team” .
Ron was too busy be­ing grumpy and surly with Hermione to no­tice . Fi­nal­ly Har­ry tried get­ting an­gry again in the hope of pro­vok­ing Ron in­to a de­fi­ant, and hope­ful­ly goal­sav­ing, at­ti­tude .
Har­ry was de­ter­mined to beat Dra­co Mal­foy at Quid­ditch even if he could not prove his sus­pi­cions about him . But if Ron played as he had done in the last few prac­tices, their chances of win­ning were very slim . Break­fast was the usu­al ex­citable af­fair next morn­ing .
Hermione was star­ing at Har­ry as though she could not be­lieve her eyes . “You just put some­thing in that drink,” said Ron. “Ex­cuse me?” said Ron .
Gin­ny and Demelza were al­ready wearing their Quid­ditch robes and wait­ing in the chang­ing room . “He’s ill? What’s wrong with him?” said Har­ry, wheel­ing around to stare at her .
Mal­foy had once claimed he could not play due to in­ju­ry . But on that oc­ca­sion he had made sure the whole match was resched­uled . “Lucky, I call it,” said Ron, look­ing slight­ly more an­imat­ed .
Har­ry stepped up to Madam Hooch, the ref­eree, who was stand­ing ready to re­lease the balls from the crate . “Cap­tains shake hands,” she said. “Mount your brooms. On the whis­tle . three . two .. one . .
giv­en Ronald Weasley’s patchy per­for­mance as Keep­er last year . The Cap­tain has put to­geth­er this season . “Oh, and here comes Slytherin’s first attempt on goal, it’s Urquhart streak­ing down the pitch and —” Har­rys stom­ach turned over .
Gryffind­or were lead­ing six­ty points to ze­ro, Ron hav­ing made some tru­ly spec­tac­ular saves, some by the very tips of his gloves, and Gin­ny having scored four of the goals . This ef­fec­tive­ly stopped Zacharias won­de­ring loud­ly whether the two Weasleys were on­ly there be­cause Har­ry liked
Harp­er col­lid­ed with Gryffind­ors hard and de­lib­er­ate­ly . “Your blood­traitor pal...” Madam Hooch’s back was turned . Har­ry raced af­ter him, de­ter­mined to ram him back . But next mo­ment, his stom­ach seemed to drop out of the , sky .
“Oi, Harp­er!” yelled Har­ry in des­per­ation . “How much did Mal­foy pay you to come on in­stead of him?” He did a dou­ble­take; he fum­bled the Snitch . Wheel­ing around, he hur­tled back to­ward the ground .
Ron and Har­ry were the last two in the chang­ing room . They were just about to leave when Hermione en­tered . She was twist­ing her Gryffind­or scarf in her hands and looked up­set but de­ter­mined .
“I want­ed Ron to think I’d done it, so I fake it when I knew you were looking­ing.” He looked at Ron . “You saved ev­ery­thing be­cause you felt lucky. You did it all your­self.” He said, as­tound­ing. “I hon­est­ly haven’t been giv­en lucky po­tion!”
“You go!” said Hermione, blink­ing back tears . “I’m sick of Ron at the mo­ment, I don’t know what I’m supposed to have done.” And she stormed out of the chang­ing room too .
Har­ry looked in­to Gin­ny, Arnold the Pygmy Puff rid­ing on her shoul­der and Crook­shanks mew­ing hope­ful­ly at her heels . “It looks like he’s eat­ing her face, doesn’t it?” she asked dis­pas­sion­ate­ly .
Crook­shanks trot­ted af­ter her, his yel­low eyes fixed up­on Arnold . Har­ry turned away from Ron, who did not look like he would be sur­fac­ing soon . He dart­ed forward, sidestepped Romil­da Vane again, and pushed open the por­trait of the Fat La­dy .
Hermione was star­ing at Ron, who re­fused to look at her . The lit­tle flock con­tin­ued to twit­ter in cir­cles around her head so that she looked like a strange, feath­ery mod­el of the so­lar system .
Har­ry glanced at Ron, who was looking re­lieved that noth­ing worse had hap­pened . “Op­pug­no!” came a shriek from the door­way . The lit­tle flock of birds was speed­ing like a hail of fat gold­en bul­lets to­ward Ron .
Ha­grid had sin­gle­hand­ered the usu­al twelve C hrist­mas trees to the Great Hall . gar­lands of hol­ly and tin­sel had been twist­ed around the ban­is­ters of the stairs . ev­er­last­ing can­dles glowed from in­side the hel­mets of suits of ar­mor and great bunch­es of mis­tle­toe
Har­ry had to put up with the fre­quent pres­ence of Laven­der Brown . Ron was tak­ing a de­fen­sive and re­sent­ful tone . “She’s found out some­one wants to snog me too. Well, it’s a free coun­try. I haven’t done any­thing wrong,” Har­ries said .
Ron's voice trailed away in mut­ters, bare­ly au­di­ble over the loud crack­ling of the fire . Hermione’s schedule was so full that Har­ry could on­ly talk to her prop­er­ly in the evenings .
Har­ry said noth­ing. He thought his voice might soon van­ish from the lack of use . He bent a lit­tle low­er over Ad­vanced Po­tion­Mak­ing and con­tin­ued to make notes on Ev­er­last­ing Elixirs . “For the last time,” said Hermione, giv­ing his book a nasty look as though it had been rude to her .
Har­ry wa t che d her with his mind a long way away with her quill . “I thought Filch had banned any­thing bought at Weasley’s Wiz­ard Wheezes?” Hermione said .
Filch is be­ing fooled isn’t he? These girls are getting stuff in­to the school dis­guised as some­thing else! “Oh, Har­ry... not that again...” “Come on, why not?” de­mand­ed Harry .
Some­body had moved close be­hind them among the dark book­shelves . They wait­ed, and a mo­ment lat­er the vul­ture­like coun­te­nance of Madam Pince ap­peared around the cor­ner, her sunken cheeks, her skin like parch­ment, and her long hooked nose il­lu­mi­nat­ing­ly by the lamp she was car­ry­
“It’s not the li­brary’s, it’s mine!” said Har­ry hasti­ly, tug­ging it out of her grip . “I’ve al­ways thought there might be some­thing be­tween them...” “Oh, ha ha..” Enjoy­ing the fact that they could speak nor­mal­ly again, they made their way along the de­sert­ed lam­plit cor­ri­dor
Romil­da Vane hur­ried off be­hind Hermione, his voice tail­ing away fee­bly . “Oh– right — thanks a lot.” said Har­ry, who could not think what else to say .
Ron and Hermione would make up with each oth­er be­fore the hol­idays be­gan, but per­haps, the break would give them time to think bet­ter of their be­hav­ior...
Hermione laughed unkind­ly at Ron’s dis­as­trous first at­tempt . Ron re­tal­iat­ed by do­ing a cru­el but ac­cu­rate im­pres­sion . She raced out of the class­room on the bell, leav­ing half her things be­hind; Har­ry scooped up her remain­ing po ss­es­sions and
Hermione tak­ing her things and turn­ing away quick­ly to hide the fact she was wiping her eyes with her pen­cil case . She hur­ried off, with­out ev­er giv­ing Har­ry any time to of­fer words of com­fort, though ad­mit­ted­ly he could not think of any .
Lu­na turned her pro­tu­ber­ant eyes to him in sur­prise . “Slughorn’s par­ty? With you?” “Yeah,” said Har­ry, “We’re sup­posed to bring guests, so I thought you might like.. I mean, just as friends, you know. But if you don’t want to... I’d love to go with you as friends!”
Har­ry Pot­ter was tak­ing Lu­na Love­good to Slughorn’s par­ty . She moved on down the ta­ble to sit with Dean . Gin­ny was sitting alone, playing with her stew .
“Hi, Har­ry,” said Par­vati, “How’re you? You’re staying at Hog­warts, then? I heard your par­ents want­ed you to leave.” “That Katie thing re­al­ly freaked them out, but as there hasn’t been any­thing since... Oh, hi, Hermione!” He looked around and saw that Hermimione was beam­ing back, if pos­si­ble even more
Laven­der and Par­vati put their heads to­geth­er to dis­cuss this new de­vel­op­ment with ev­ery­thing they had guessed about McLaggen . Harmione was left to pon­der in si­lence the depths to which girls would sink to get revenge .
Lu­na was wearing a set of span­gled sil­ver robes that were attract­ing a cer­tain amount of gig­gles from the on­lookers . Har­ry was glad that she had left off her radish ear­rings, her but­ter­beer cork neck­lace, and her Spec­tre­specs . “Where is the par­ty?” “Slughorn’s office,”
Slughorn’s of­fice was larg­er than the usu­al teach­er’s study . The room was crowd­ed and stuffy and bathed in the red light cast by an or­nate gold­en lamp dan­gling from the cen­ter of the ceil­ing in which re­al fairies were flut­ter­ing . Loud singing ac­com­pa­nied by what sounds like man­dolins
Slughorn was wearing a tas­seled vel­vet hat to match his smok­ing jack­et . Har­ry seized Lu­na’s hand and dragged her along with him . El­dred Wor­ple was a small, stout, be­specta­cled man .
“Har­ry Pot­ter, I am sim­ply de­light­ed!” said Wor­ple . “I was saying­ing to Pro­fes­sor Slughorn on­ly the oth­er day, ‘Where is the bi­og­ra­phy of Har­ry?’” “Er,” said Harry, “were you?” “Just as mod­est as Ho­race de­scribed!”
“I’m def­inite­ly not in­ter­est­ed,” said Har­ry firm­ly . He pulled Lu­na af­ter him in­to the crowd; he had just seen a long mane of brown hair dis­ap­pear be­tween what looked like two mem­bers of the Weird Sis­ters . Hermione looked dis­tinct­ly di­sheveled, rather as
“Good evening, my dear,” said Pro­fes­sor Trelawney . “No, I’ve got Firen­ze this year,” said Lu­na .
Har­ry drew clos­er to Hermione and said, “Let ‘ s get some­thing straight. Are you plan­ning to tell Ron that you in­ter­fered at Keep­er try­outs?” She raised her eye­brows . “Do you re­al­ly think I’d stoop that low?” She looked at her shrewd­ly .
“Oh, hel­lo,” said Har­ry un­en­thu­si­as­ti­cal­ly . “My dear boy!” she said in a very car­ry­ing whis­per .
“Ah, Sybi l l, we all think our sub­ject’s most im­por­tant!” said Slughorn . Snape looked down his hooked nose at Har­ry, his black eyes nar­rowed . “Fun­ny, I nev­er had the im­pres­sion that I man­aged to teach Pot­ter any­thing at all.”
“You should have seen what he gave me, first les­son, Draught of Liv­ing Death — I don’t think even you, Severus —” Snape qui­et­ly, his eyes still bor­ing in­to Har­ry . “All the sub­jects re­quired, in short, for an Au­ror,” said Snap e with the faintest sneer .
Ar­gus Filch claims to have been in­vit­ed to your par­ty and de­layed in set­ting out . Filch says he was trying to gate crash, hap­py? “No, I’m not!” said Filch .
Fil ich’s ex­pres­sion of out­raged dis­ap­point­ment was per­fect­ly pre di c t able; but why, Har­ry won­dered, did Mal­foy look al­most equal­ly un­hap­py? And why was Snape looking­ing at him as though both an­gry and . was it p os­si­ble? But .
Mal­foy had dark shad­ows un­der his eyes and a dis­tinct­ly gray­ish tinge to his skin . This was the first time he had seen Mal­Foy close up for ages . “Now , Severus,” said Slughorn, hic­cup­ing again .
Har­ry ran down the cor­ri­dor, the noise of his feet masked by the mu­sic and loud talk still is­su­ing from Slughorn’s of­fice be­hind him . Per­haps Snape had tak­en Mal­foy to his office in the dun­geons . “I hope you are telling the truth, be­cause it was both clum­sy a nd
“I know what you’re doing­ing, I’m not stupid, but it won’t work — I can stop you!” Snape said qui­et­ly, “Ah . You have feared my in­ter­fer­ence? You re­al­ize that, had any­body else failed to come to my of­fice when I had told them re–peat­ed­ly to be there, Dra­co —” “So put me in de
“Looks like you’ll have to break it, then, be­cause I don’t need your pro­tec­tion! It’s my job, he gave it to me and I’m do­ing it!” “I’ve got a plan and it’s go­ing to work,” said Snape . “You were cer­tain­ly alone tonight, which was fool­ish in the extreme, wan­der­ing the cor­ri­dor
“It is an act that is cru­cial to suc­cess, Dra­co!” said Snape . “You are be­ing in­cau­tious, wan­dering around at night, get­ting your­self caught, and I can —” Snape said cold­ly, “I know what you’re up to! You want to steal my glo­ry!” .
“Yes, Snape was of­fer­ing to help him!” said Har­ry . “I’m on­ly check­ing!” said Ron, look­ing stunned .
“Aaah, George, look at this. They’re us­ing knives and ev­ery­thing. Bless them.” “I’ll be sev­en­teen in two and a bit months’ time,” said George . “You made me do that!” said Ron an­gri­ly .
Mrs. Weasley en­tered the room just in time to see Ron throw the sprout knife at Fred, who had turned it in­to a pa­per air­plane with one lazy flick of his wand, “Ron!” she said fu­ri­ous­ly . “Don’t you ev­er let me see you throw­ing knives again!” said Ron, “let you see” .
“No, I don’t think we can do that,” said Fred se­ri­ous­ly . “I’m go­ing to tell any­one who can put a stop to it, and Dum­ble­dore’s top of the list. I might have an­oth­er word with your dad too.”
Ron said, ’Course, you know what they’ll all say? Dad and Dumble­dore and all of them? They’ll say Snape isn’t re­al­ly try­ing to help Mal­foy . “They didn’t hear him,” said Har­ry flat­ly .
Hermione had dis­ap­peared from Slughorn’s par­ty be­fore he re­turned to it . He had bare­ly had time to wish her a hap­py Christ­mas and to tell her that he had some very im­por­tant news when they got back from the hol­idays .
Weasleys and their guests were sitting in the liv­ing room un­til Christ­mas Eve night . Fred, George, Har­ry, and Ron were the on­ly ones who knew that the an­gel on top of the tree was ac­tu­al­ly a gar­den gnome .
Mrs. Weasleys fa­vorite singer, Ce­lesti­na War­beck, was lis­ten­ing to a Christmas broad­cast . Fleur was talking so loud­ly in the cor­ner that a scowl­ing Mrs. weasley kept point­ing her wand at the vol­ume con­trol . Mean­while, Re­mus Lupin, who was thin­ner and more ragged­look­
“Sorry about this,” said Har­ry, jerk­ing his head to the wire­less as Ce­lesti­na broke in­to the cho­rus. “Be over soon.” “No prob­lem,” said Mr. Weasley. “I wouldn’t mind if we were getting­ting any­where, but of the three ar­rests we’ve made in the last cou­ple of months, I doubt that one of them is a gen­u
“I checked, Har­ry,” said Mr. Weasley at once . “Yeah, I know, I saw in the Prophet that you’d looked . But this is some­thing dif­fer­ent. Well, some­what more ... . It’s left me for a spell... “It’sn’t our busi­ness to know,” said Lupin .
“But Dum­ble­dore can make mis­takes,” ar­gued Har­ry . “He says it him­self. And you” — he looked Lupin straight in the eye — “do you hon­est­ly like Snape?” Lupin said .
“You are de­ter­mined to hate him, Har­ry,” said Lupin with a faint smile . “I’ve been un­der­ground,” says Lupin, as Mr, Weasley bus­tled off to fetch the eggnog .
“I’ve been liv­ing among my fellows, my equals,” said Lupin . “Near­ly all of them are on Volde­mort’s side. Dum­ble­dore want­ed a spy and here I was . ready­made.” He smiled more warm­ly as he went on, “I am not com­plain­ing; it is nec­es­sary work” .
Lupin's hands closed con­vul­sive­ly in his lap . “Fen­rir Grey­back is, per­haps, the most sav­age were­wolf alive to­day. He re­gards it as his mis­sion in life to bite and to con­ta­mi­nate as many peo­ple as pos­si­ble; he wants to cre­ate enough were­wolves to over­come the wi
Grey­back is not like that. At the full moon, he po­si­tions him­self close to vic­tims, en­sur­ing that he is near enough to strike. He plans it all. And this is the man Volde­mort is us­ing to mar­shal the were­wolves .
“I should have thought be­ing ‘the Cho­sen One’ would be enough” said Lupin . “Oh, that one had a great vogue dur­ing my time at Hog­warts,” said Har­ry .
Har­ry looked in­to Harry’s face and then said qui­et­ly, “James was a pure­blood, Harry, and I promise you, he nev­er asked us to call him ‘Prince’ . “Well, per­haps that will give you some clue as to when the Prince was at Hog­warts,” said Lupin .
Ron fell asleep al­most im­me­di­ate­ly, but Har­ry delved in­to his trunk . He pulled out his copy of Ad­vanced Po­tion­Mak­ing be­fore getting into bed . There he fi­nal­ly found, at the front of the book, the date it had been pub­lished . It was near­ly fifty years old.
Ron de­mand­ed of thin air, look­ing rather shocked . “Well... we don’t re­al­ly talk much,” said Ron .
Ron had giv­en a loud yell and leapt out of his camp bed . “I’d rather have them than that neck­lace,” said Har­ry . He was wearing a brand­new mid­night blue witch’s hat glit­ter­ing with tiny star­like di­amonds .
Har­ry felt goose bumps erupt up his neck that had noth­ing to do with the mag­got . “‘Ow ‘or­ri­ble’ said Fleur, with an af­fect­ed lit­tle shud­der. “Yes, isn’t it?” said Ron .
Har­ry, glanc­ing across at Fleur, thought that Mrs. Weasley was fighting a lon­glost bat­tle . He was, how­ev­er, re­mind­ed of a ques­tion he had with regard to Tonks .
Mr. Weasley, Fred, and George were all ob­serving him . He stood, pok­er­straight and awk­ward­look­ing, and stared over ev­ery­body else’s heads . The man Har­ry had seen in the Dai­ly Prophet was fol­low­ing along in Per­cy’s wake .
Scrim­geour guessed that he had checked her name with Per­cy be­fore they en­tered the house . “Oh, Perce!” said Mrs. Weasley tear­ful­ly, reaching up to kiss him . The at­mo­sphere around the ta­ble changed per­cep­ti­bly .
Scrim­geour’s talk that they had just been in the area, that Per­cy wanted­ed to look up his fam­ily, this must be the re­al rea­son that they’d come, so that they could speak to Har­ry alone . “We’ll just take a turn around the gar­den, and I’ll be off. Car­ry on, ev­ery­one!” said Scrim-geour, limp­ing slight­
“Oh yes, for a very long time. But Dum­ble­dore has been very pro­tective of you,” said Scrim­geour . “I have been hop­ing for an oc­ca­sion to talk to you ev­er since I gained of­fice,” Har­ry said noth­ing, wait­ing. “Well, of course, we both know how these stories get dis­tort­ed .
Har­ry could see, out of the cor­ner of his eye, Scrim­geour squint­ing at him, so he pre­tend­ing to be very in­ter­est­ed in a gnome that had just poked its head out from un­der­neath a frozen rho­do­den­dron .
The gnome un­der the rho­do­den­dron was now dig­ging for worms at its roots . Har­ry was silent so long that Scrim­geour said, look­ing to get it out of the frozen ground . “Peo­ple be­lieve you are ‘the Cho­sen One,’ you see,” said Scrim-geour.
“I don’t ex­act­ly un­der­stand what you want,” said Har­ry slow­ly . “Oh, well, noth­ing at all on­er­ous, I as­sure you,” said Scrim­geour . Do­lores Um­bridge has told me that you cher­ish an am­bi­tion to be­come an Au­ror .
“Well, yes, that’s part­ly why we’d like —” Scrim­geour said . “You’re mak­ing Stan a scape­goat, just like you want to make me mas­cot,” said Har­ry . „You pre­fer — like your hero, Dum­ble­dore— to dis­as­so­ci­ate your­self from the Min­istry?” “I don’t want to
“You’re do­ing what Bar­ty Crouch did. You nev­er get it right, you peo­ple, do you?” said Har­ry . “I thought you said it didn’t mat­ter ei­ther way?” said Scrim­geour quick­ly .
“What is Dumble­dore up to?” said Scrim­geour brusque­ly . “Well, then, I will have to see whether I can’t find out by oth­er means.” There was a long pause .
Har­ry, Ron, and Gin­ny lined up be­side the kitchen fire to re­turn stu­dents quick­ly and safe­ly to the school . Mrs. Weasley dis­solved in­to tears at the mo­ment of part­ing . It took very lit­tle to set her off late­ly .
Mrs. Weasley sobbed hard­er than ev­er as she en­fold­ed Har­ry in her arms . “I like a qui­et life, you know me.” She gave a wa­tery chuck­le .
Har­ry glanced out of McG­ona­gall’s of­fice and off to­ward Gryffind­or Tow­er . He could see Ha­grid feed­ing Buck­beak in front of his cab­in . “There is a new pass­word,” Hermione said breath­less­ly .
Fat La­dy swung for­ward to re­veal the por­trait hole . “Overindulged over Christ­mas, ap­parent­ly,” said Har­ry .
“Oh, fine,” said Har­ry grudg­ing­ly . “Look, Hermione, can’t you —” “I’ll tell you in a minute,” she said flat­ly. “So don’t even ask.” “I thought maybe, you know, over Christ­mas —“ “It was the Fat La­dy who drank a vat of five­hun­dredyearold wine, Harry, not me.” She looked too
“I don’t know ... Snape def­inite­ly said ‘your mas­ter,’ and who else would that be?” She stared across the room, ap­parent­ly lost in thought . “How’s Lupin?” “Not great,” said Har­ry, and told her all about Lupin’s mis­sion among the were­wolves and the dif­fi­culties he was fac­ing .
“You’re unbeliev­able, you are,” said Har­ry, shak­ing his head . “We’ll see who’s right. Oh yeah, 1 had a row with Ru­fus Scrim­geour as well.. .
Ron was just tak­ing out his quill to sign af­ter Hermione when Laven­der crept up be­hind him . Har­ry turned to see her stalk­ing off; he caught up with them on­ly a lit­tle way be­yond the por­trait hole, his ears bright red and his ex­pres­sion dis­grun­tled . “Maybe it’s bet­ter when you do it your
Ron was not the on­ly one to be ex­cit­ed at the prospect of Ap­pari­tion . “How cool will it be when we can just —” Sea­mus clicked his ringers to in­di­cate dis­ap­pear­an­ce .
Har­ry was be­sieged with re­quests from the oth­er sixth years to de­scribe the sen­sa­tion of Ap­pari­tion . All of them seemed awed, rather than put off, when he told them how un­com­fort­able it was . He was still an­swer­ing de­tailed ques­tions at ten to eight that evening .
Dum­ble­dore’s hands lay on ei­ther side of it, the right one as black­ened and burnt­look­ing as ev­er . It did not seem to have healed at all and Har­ry won­dered, for per­haps the hun­dredth time, what had caused such a dis­tinctive in­ju­ry, but did not ask . “He’s not very hap­py
“I told Cor­nelius there was no chance of it, but the idea did not die when he left: of­fice” Har­ry blurt­ed out . “It was in the Dai­ly Prophet”‘ “The Prophet is bound to re­port the truth oc­ca­sion­al­ly,” said Dum­ble­dore, “if on­ly ac­ci­den­tal­ly. Yes, that was why we
Dum­ble­dore’s bright blue eyes looked rather wa­tery, ami stared hasti­ly at his own knees . “Scrim­geour want­ed to know where you go when you’re not at Hog­warts,” said Har­ry, now sound­ing cheer­ful .
Dum­ble­dore lis­tened to Har­ry’s sto­ry with an im­pas­sive face . “I do not think that it is of great im­por­tance.” “Pro­fes­sor, blessed as I am with ex­traor­di­nary brain­pow­er, I un­der­stood ev­ery­thing you told me,” said Dum–bledor
“I have been tol­er­ant enough to an­swer that ques­tion al­ready,” said Dum­ble­dore . “I should think not,” said Phineas Nigel­lus ev­ident­ly pre­tend­ing to be asleep .
Har­ry still felt an­gry at the re­cep­tion his con­fi­dences had received, but could not see what was to be gained by ar­gu­ing fur­ther . Dum­ble­dore, in a ring­ing voice, met this evening to con­tin­ue the tale of Tom Rid­dle, whom we left last les­son poised on the thresh­old of his
Har­ry drew at­ten­tion and sym­pa­thy from the staff al­most from the mo­ment of his ar­ri­val . He seemed po­lice, qui­et, and thirsty for knowl­edge. Near­ly all were most fa­vor­ably im­pressed by him.”
Dum­ble­dore nev­er seemed to like me as much as the oth­er teach­ers did . “Let us say that I did not take it for grant­ed that he was trust­wor­thy,” said Dumble­deore. “I can­not pre­tend that I gleaned a great deal from my ob­ser­va­tions at first. He felt, I am sure, that in the thrill of
Rid­dle un­doubt­ed­ly felt no af­fec­tion for any of them . They were the fore­run­ners of the Death Eaters, and in­deed some of them be­came the first Death Eater leav­ing Hog­warts . Ha­grid was wrong­ly ac­cused of that crime.
“I have not been able to find many mem­ories of Rid­dle at Hog­warts,” said Dumble­dore . “Few who knew him then are pre­pared to talk about him; they are too ter­ri­fied,” he said .
Tom Rid­dle se­nior was forced to ac­cept that his fa­ther had nev­er set foot in Hog­warts . I be­lieve that it was then that he dropped the name for­ev­er, assumed the iden­ty of Lord Volde­mort, and be­gan his in­ves­ti­ga­tions in­to his pre­vi­ous­ly de
Har­ry left the or­phan­age to which he re­turned an­nu­al­ly and set off to find his Gaunt rel­atives . “As you will un­der­stand when we have ex­pe­ri­ence it. Shall we?” he said .
The Gaunts’ house was now more in­de­scrib­ably filthy than any­where Har­ry had ev­er seen . The on­ly light came from a sin­gle gut­ter­ing can­dle placed at the feet of a man with hair and beard . He was slumped in an arm­chair by the fire . But then there came a loud knock on the door and the man jerked awake .
Rid­dle spoke in Parsel­tongue . The man skid­ded in­to the ta­ble, sending­ing moldy pots crash­ing to the floor . “You speak it?” “Yes, I speak it,” said Riddle .
Morfin looked slight­ly dazed and swayed a lit­tle, still clutch­ing the edge of the ta­ble for sup­port . “He come back, see,” he added stupid­ly. “Ar, he left her, and serve her right, mar­ry­ing filth!”
Dum­ble­dore’s fin­gers closed tight­ly around Har­ry’s arm and they were soar­ing back in­to the present again . “Why did it go dark, what hap­pened?” he said .
The Min­istry knew at once that this was a wiz­ard’s mur­der . They knew that a con­vict­ed Mug­gle­hater lived across the val­ley from the Rid­dle house . He had al­ready been im­pris­oned once for at­tack­ing one of the mur­dered peo­ple .
‘He’ll kill me for los­ing his ring.’ And that, ap­par­ent­ly, was all he ev­er said again . He lived out the re­main­der of his life in Azk­aban, lament­ing the loss of Mar­vo­lo’s last heir­loom .
Volde­mort Stu­pe­fied his un­cle, took his wand, and pro­ceed­ed across the val­ley to ‘the big house over the way’ There he mur­dered the Mug­gle man who had aban­doned his witch moth­er, thus oblit­er­at­ing the last of the un­wor­thy Rid­dle line and re­veng­ing him­
“But it took a great deal of skilled Legili­men­cy to coax it out of him,” said Dum­ble­dore, “and why should any­body delve fur­ther in­to Morfin’s mind when he had al­ready con­fessed to the crime?” Har­ry asked an­gri­ly “He was un­der­age at the time, wasn’t he? I thought they could de­tect Un­der
Dum­ble­dore took from an in­side pock­et an­oth­er crys­tal phial . Har­ry fell silent at once, re­mem­ber­ing that Dumble­Dore had said it was the most im­por­tant one he had col­lect­ed . “We shall be back be­fore you know it. Once more, then.
Har­ry was so used to him bald that he found the sight of Slughorn with thick, shiny, straw­col­ored hair quite dis­con­cert­ing . His mus­tache, less mas­sive than it was these days, was gin­gery­blond .
“Tom, Tom, if I knew I couldn’t tell you,” said Slughorn . “I’d like to know where you get your in­for­ma­tion, boy, more knowl­edge­able than half the staff, you are,” Rid­dle smiled .
Slughorn pulled him­self out of his arm­chair and car­ried his emp­ty glass over to his desk as the boys filed out . Volde­mort, how­ev­er, stayed be­hind . “You don’t want to be caught out of bed out of hours, and you a pre­fect...” “Sir, I won­dered what you know about.” And it hap­pened all over again: The dense fog filled the room so that
Dum­ble­dore had said that this was the most im­por­tant mem­ory of all, but he could not see what was so sig­nif­icant about it . oth­er than that noth­ing seemed to have hap­pened ex­cept that Volde­mort had asked a ques­tion and failed to get an­swer . “Be­cause, I think, he is ashamed of what he
Pro­fes­sor Slughorn is an ex­treme­ly able wiz­ard who will be ex­pect­ing both,” said Dumble­dore . “I would be aston­ished if he has not car­ried an an­ti­dote to Ver­itaserum with him ev­er since I co­erced him in­to giv­ing me this trav­
Har­ry has his weak­nesses like the rest of us, and I be­lieve that you are the one per­son who might be able to pen­etrate his de­fens­es . “Good night, sir.” As he closed the study door be­hind him, he dis­tinct­ly heard Phineas Nigel­lus say, “I can’t see why the boy should beable to do it bet­ter than you, Du
Hermione, how­ev­er, took a gloo­mi­er view . ‘He must be de­ter­mined to hide what re­al­ly hap­pened if Dumble­dore couldn’t get it out of him,’ she said in a low voice .
Hermione moved her caul­dron around the ta­ble so that she was close to Ernie . But be­fore Har­ry could an­swer, Slughorn was calling­ing for si­lence from the front of the room . ‘Pre­cise­ly!’ beamed Gryffindor .
Ron was sitting be­side Har­ry with his mouth hal­fopen, doo­dling ab­sent­ly on his new copy of Ad­vanced Po­tion­Mak­ing . ‘... and so, so, I want each of you to come and take one of these phials from my desk. You are to cre­ate an­ti­dote for the poi­son with­in it be­fore the end of the les­son. Good luck
Har­ry un­corked the poi­son he had tak­en from Siughorn’s desk, which was a gar­ish shade of pink, tipped it in­to his caul­dron and lit a fire un­der­neath it . He looked at Ron, who was now stand­ing there look­ing rather gorm­less, hav­ing copied ev­ery­thing Harry had done . There was Gol­
Ernie Macmil­lan, how­ev­er, was mut­ter­ing, ‘Spe­cialis rev­elio!’ over his caul­dron, which sound­ed im­pres­sive . It took Har­ry on­ly five min­utes to re­alise that his rep­uta­tion as the best po­tion­mak­er in the class was crash­ing around his ears .
Har­ry stared at these words for a mo­ment . Hadn’t Snape men­tioned them in their first ev­er Po­tions les­son? ‘A stone tak­en from the stom­ach of a goat, which will pro­tect from most poi­sons.’ It was not an an­swer to the Gol­palott prob­lem, and had Snape still been their teach­er, Har­
Ron had giv­en up com­plete­ly, and was mere­ly trying to avoid breath­ing in the pu­trid fumes is­su­ing from his caul­dron . Har­ry stood there waiting, the be­zoar clutched in a slight­ly sweaty hand . Slughorn reached their ta­ble last. He sniffed Ernie’s po­tion and passed on to Ron’s with a gri­
Hermione looked livid and had soot on her nose . Be­fore ei­ther of them could ex­press their fury that Har­ry had come top of the class by not do­ing any work, how­ev­er, the bell rang .
Har­ry daw­dled be­hind, tak­ing an in­or­di­nate amount of time to do up his bag . Nei­ther Ron nor Hermione wished him luck as they left; both looked rather an­noyed . ‘Sir, 1 won­dered what you know about... about Hor­crux­es?’ Slughorn froze .
Nei­ther Ron nor Hermione was at all sym­pa­thet­ic when Har­ry told them of this dis­as­trous in­ter­view Harry had tri­umphed with­out do­ing the work prop­er­ly . ‘It would’ve just looked stupid if we’d both done it!’ said Ron ir­ri­ta­bly. ‘Oh, will you gel a grip
In­fu­ri­at­ed by his fail­ure and by Ron and Hermione’s at­ti-tudes, Har­ry brood­es for the next few days over what to do next about Slughorn . he ap­peared to have put the mat­ter from his mind, even if he had to reschedule Quid­ditch prac­ tice .
Mean­while, the Hogwarts li­brary had failed Hermione for the first lime in liv­ing mem­ory . She even for­got that she was an­noyed at Har­ry for his trick with the be­zoar, ‘I haven’t found one sin­gle ex­pla­na­tion of what Hor­crux­es do’ she told him . ‘I’ve been right through the re­
Nei­ther Ron nor Hermione was at all sym­pa­thet­ic when Har­ry told them of this dis­as­trous in­ter­view . Ron was re­sent­ful that Harry hadn’t slipped him a be­zoar, too .
Har­ry de­cid­ed that, for the time be­ing, he would let Slughorn think that he had for­got­ten all about Hor­crux­es; it was sure­ly best to lull him in­to a false sense of se­cu­ri­ty be­fore re­turn­ing to the at­tack . He waited an in­vi­ta­tion to one of his lit­tle evening
‘I haven’t found one sin­gle ex­pla­na­tion of what Hor­crux­es do!’ she told him . ‘I’ve been right through the re­strict­ed sec­tion and even in the most hor­ri­ble books, where they tell you how to brew most grue­some po­tions -noth­ing!’ She said in­tro­duc­tion to Mag­ick Moste Evil
Har­ry and Hermione ar­rived in the Hall (Ron had come down with Laven­der) they found that the ta­bles had dis­ap­peared . The en­chant­ed ceil­ing swirled dark­ly above them as they as­sem­bled in front of Pro­fes­sors McG­ona­gall, Snape, Flitwick and Sprout - the Head
The Heads of House moved among the stu­dents, mar­shalling them in­to po­si­tion and break­ing up ar­gu­ments . Har­ry looked quick­ly at Snape, who looked an­noyed .
Har­ry was mov­ing quick­ly through the crowd, past the place where Pro­fes­or Flitwick was mak­ing squeaky at­tempts to po­si­tion a few Raven­claws, all of whom want­ed to be near the front . ‘I don’t know how much longer, all right?’ Mal­foy shot at him, obliv­ious to Harry stand­ing right be­hin
Mal­foy turned slow­ly to face the front . Old­fash­ioned wood­en hoops in­stant­ly ap­peared on the floor in from of ev­ery stu­dent . ‘Step one: fix your mind firm­ly up­on the de­sired des­tin­ation,’ said Twycross .
‘Step two,’ called Twycross, ‘fo­cus your de­ter­mi­na­tion to oc­cu­py the vi­su­alised space!’ Har­ry glanced around sur­rep­ti­tious­ly . Ernie Macmil­lan was con­tem­plat­ing his hoop so hard that his face had turned pink; it looked as though he was strain­ing to lay a
The sec­ond atlem.pt was no bet­ter than the first . Not un­til the fourth did any­thing ex­cit­ing hap­pen . There was a hor­ri­ble screech of pain and ev­ery­body looked around . Su­san Bones of Huf­flepuff wob­bling in her hoop with her left leg still stand­ing five feet away where she had started
Su­san’s Splinch­ing was still ihe most in­ter­est­ing thing that had hap­pened . He waved his wand, Van­ish­ing the hoops, and walked out of the Hall ac­com­pa­nied by Pro­fes­sor McG­ona­gall . ‘1 think 1 felt some­thing the last time I tried - a kind of tin­gling in
Ron fol­lowed Har­ry back to Gryffind­or Tow­er at a run . They were tem­po­rar­ily de­tained by Peeves, who had jammed a door on the fourth floor shut and was re­fus­ing to let any­one pass un­til they set fire to their own pants . With­in five min­utes, they were climbing through the por­trait hole . ‘Are you going
The Ma­raud­er’s Map ap­peared on the parch­ment’s sur­face . Here was a de­tailed plan of ev­ery one of the cas­tle’s floors and mov­ing around it . ‘Help me find Mal­foy,’ said Har­ry ur­gent­ly. ‘He’s in the Slytherin com­mon room, look ... with Parkin­son and Zabi
Mal­foy, Crabbe and Goyle ap­peared to be go­ing their dif­fer­ent ways when they were usu­al­ly in­sep­ara­ble . Al­though he con­sult­ed the map as of­ten as he could, some­times mak­ing un­nec­es­sary vis­its to the bath­room be­tween lessons to search
Febru­ary moved to­wards March with no change in the weath­er ex­cept that it be­came windy as well as wet . A sign went up on all com­mon­room no­tice­boards that the next trip in­to Hogsmeade had been can­celled . ‘It was on my birth­day!’ said Har­ry. ‘Not a big sur­prise, though, is it?’ .
‘Cheers,’ said Ron drowsi­ly, and opened his own crunk and be­gan rum­mag­ing in it for the Ma­raud­er’s Map . He turfed out half the con­tents of his trunk be­fore he found it hid­ing be­neath the rolledup socks in which he was still keeping his bot­tle of lucky po­tion, Fe­lix Fe­li­cis 
‘Se­ri­ous­ly good haul this year!’ he an­nounced, holding up a heavy gold watch with odd symbols around the edge and tiny mov­ing stars in­stead of hands . ‘See what Mum and Dad got me? Blimey, I think I’ll come of age next year too ... ‘Cool,’ mut­tered Har­ry, spar­ing the watch a glance be­fore peer­ing more
Har­ry tapped the map with his wand, mut­tered, ‘Mis­chief man­aged,’ though it hadn’t been, and got dressed, think­ing hard . The best way of finding­ing out would be to tail him, bur even with the In­vis­ibil­ity Cloak this was an im­prac­ti­cal idea .
‘Har­ry!’ said Ron sud­den­ly . ‘You can’t stand what?’ said Har­ry . 'You can't stop thinking­ing about her!' said Ron .
Ron yelled as his heel was wrenched up­wards once more; he dan­gled help­less­ly, up­side­down, his robes hang­ing off him . ‘This is in­sane!’ said Har­ry, who was slow­ly turn­ing pur­ple in the face as all the blood rushed to his head .
Ron saw the box ly­ing open on Ron’s bed and the truth hit him with the force of a stam­ped­ing troll . ‘They’d fall­en off your bed, you prat, don’t you un­der­stand?’ ‘They were mine, 1 chucked them out of my trunk when 1 was looking­ing for the map’ ‘Romil­da?’ he re­peat­ed .
Ron had not been him­self when he had at­tacked, and Har­ry- thought that he would de­serve an­oth­er punch­ing if he per­mit­ted Ron to de­clare undy­ing love for Romil­da Vane . 'Yeah, I’ll in­tro­duce you,’ said Ron, think­ing fast . ‘Oh, she has ex­tra Po­tions lessons with him,
Har­ry tried to make an apo­lo­getic face to Laven­der, but it might have turned out sim­ply amused, be­cause she looked more of­fend­ed than ev­er as Fat La­dy swung shut be­hind them . ‘You’re lace, Won­Won!’ said Ron im­pa­tient­ly, ‘Leave me alone’ .
Ron was el­bow­ing him in the ribs in an at­tempt to force his way in­to the room, ‘well, I’ve nev­er mixed an an­ti­dote for a love po­tion, sir, and by the time I get it right Ron might’ve done some­thing se­ri­ous -’ Ron chose this mo­ment to moan, ‘I can’t see her. Har­ry - is this
‘She’s not here yet,’ said Har­ry, watch­ing Ron open­ing his po­tion kit and adding a few pinch­es of this and that to a small crys­tal bot­tle . ‘How do I look?’ said Slughorn smooth­ly, hand­ing him a glass of clear liq­uid. ‘Now drink that up, it’s a ton­ic for the nerves, keep you calm when she ar­
Har­ry and Slughorn had a glass of mead each, be­fore rais­ing his own . There was one sec­ond, hard­ly more than a heart­beat . Ron had dropped his glass; he hal­frose from his chair and then crum­pled, his ex­trem­ities jerk­ing un­con­trol­lably .
Har­ry leapt over a low ta­ble and sprint­ed to Slughorn’s open po­tion kit, pulling out jars and pouch­es . Then he found it - the shrivelled kid­ney­like stone tak­en from him in Po­tions . He hur­tled back to Ron’s side, wrenched open his jaw and thrust the be­zoar in­to his mouth .
“There we were in Hogsmeade, wait­ing to surprise him —” said Fred grim­ly . “We were thinking of buy­ing Zonko’s,” said Fred gloo­mi­ly, looking­ing up .
“Blimey, it was lucky you thought of a be­zoar,” said George in a low voice . “Lucky there was one in the room,” said Har­ry, who kept turn­ing cold at the thought of what would have hap­pened if he had not been able to lay hands on the lit­tle stone .
“You don’t think he could have mixed up the glass­es by mis­take? Mean­ing to get you?” asked Gin­ny . “Any­thing’s pos­si­ble,” said George . He thought of the mem­ory Dum­ble­dore had not been able to ex­tract from Slughorn .
Ha­grid came strid­ing toward them, his hair rain­flecked, his bearskin coat flap­ping be­hind him, a cross­bow in his hand, leav­ing a trail of mud­dy dol­phin­sized foot­prints all over the floor . “No more than six vis­itors at a time!” said Madam Pom­frey, hur­ry­ing out of her of­fice
“I don’ be­lieve this,” said Ha­grid hoarse­ly, shak­ing his great shag­gy head as he stared down at Ron . “Some­one couldn’ have a grudge against the Gryfinndor Quid­ditch team,” said I m urge . Wood might’ve done the Slytherins if he could’ve got away with it,” said Hermione fair­ly .
nei­ther the poi­son nor the neck­lace seems to have reached the per­son who was (sup­posed to be killed. Of course, for one thing, they both ought to have been fa­tal and weren’t, al­though that was pure luck. And for an­oth­er, that makes the Per­son be­hind this even more dan­ger­ous in a way, be­cause they don’t care how many peo
Har­ry and Hermione rose .h once to leave and Ha­grid de­cid­ed to go with them, leav­ing Ron with his fam­ily . “Ml this new se­cu­ri­ty, an kids are still get­tin’ hurt. He don’t know who sent that neck­lace nor put poi­son in that wine, or they’dve bin caught, wouldn’t they? Wha’ wor­ries
Ha­grid stopped talk­ing as the ghost of a long­haired wom­an drift­ed serene­ly past, then re­sumed in a hoarse whis­per, “. “Got­ta see it from their point o’ view,” said Hermione, look­ing wor­ried . “S’no won­der Dum­ble­dore’s an­gry with Sn —”
“Don’t try and make me feel guilty, it wont work!” said Har­ry force­ful­ly . “I — well, I was comin’ out­ta the forest the for­est the oth­er evenin’ an’ I over­heard ‘em talk­ing— Well, well, a heat­ed dis­cus­sion an’ it wasn’ easy ter block it out” .
Har­ry and Hermione ex­changed looks full of mean­ing . “Look out,” said Harry. “I know what yeh’re like abou’ Snape, Harry, an’. “Oho!” said Filch .
Filch swelled with fury; Mrs. Nor­ris had ar­rived, un­seen, and was twist­ing her­self sin­uous­ly around Filch’s skin­ny an­kles . “Get goin,” said Ha­grid out of the cor­ner of his mouth .
Har­ry had been in­ter­ro­gat­ed enough that day . Hermione baded him good night and set off for the girls’ dor­mi­to­ry . So Dum­ble­dore had ar­gued with Snape, in spite of his in­sis­tence .
Cor­mac McLaggen had been waiting for him to come back . It took Har­ry a few mo­ments to re­al­ize what he was talking about . “Yeah, I sup­pose so. ... he might not make it.”
“Good. Lis­ten, Pot­ter, we should have a talk be­fore­hand,” said Har­ry un­en­thu­si­as­ti­cal­ly. “Well, I’m pret­ty tired now ... see you . The Gryffind­ors were gen­er­al­ly much more in­ter­est­ed in the up­com­ing Quid­ditch match against Huf­fle
Har­ry, how­ev­er, had nev­er been less in­ter­est­ed in Quid­ditch; he was rapid­ly be­com­ing ob­sessed with Dra­co Mal­foy hap­pened to be, but had not yet de­tected him do­ing any­thing out of the or­di­nary . And still there were those in­ex­pli­ca­ble times when Mal
Laven­der had been very an­noyed that no­body had thought to tell her that Ron was in the hos­pi­tal wing . But un­for­tu­nate­ly slith­ad now de­cid­ed to for­give Har­ry this lapse of mem­ory . “Well, I would, but he’s al­ways asleep when I go and see him!” he said fret­fully .
“Friends, don’t make me laugh,” said Har­ry un­com­fort­ably . “Would you call get­ting poi­soned be­ing in­ter­est­ing?” asked Harry hur­ried­ly. “Any­way — sor­ry, got to go — there’s McLaggen com­ing for a talk about Quid­ditch,” he said.
“I’ve told you,” said Har­ry pa­tient­ly . “I can’t wait to be shot of him. And speak­ing of get­ting shot of peo­ple,” he added . „If you don’t want to go out with her any­more, just tell her,” said Ron .
Mal­foy stopped short at the sight of Har­ry, then gave a short, hu­mor­less laugh and con­tin­ued walk­ing . “You’d bet­ter hur­ry up, they’ll be waiting for ‘the Cho­sen Cap­tain’ — ‘the Boy Who Scored’ .
Har­ry’s best chance yet of dis­cov­er­ing what Mal­foy was up to . The silent sec­onds trick­led past, and he re­mained where he was, gaz­ing at the place . Coote and Peakes, the Beat­ers, were hit­ting their clubs ner­vous­ly .
“I’m the Cap­tain, McLaggen, shut up giv­ing them in­struc­tions,” said Har­ry an­gri­ly . “Make sure you do fly out of the sun,” he told Coote and Peakes grudg­ing­ly.
Har­ry stared down at the com­men­ta­tor’s po­di­um . But even from above there was no mis­tak­ing that long, dirty­blonde hair . Pro­fes­sor McG­ona­gall was looking­ing slight­ly un­com­fort­able .
Gin­ny and Demelza scored a goal apiece, giv­ing the redand­gold­clad sup­port­ers be­low some­thing to cheer about . Cad­wal­lad­er scored again, mak­ing things lev­el, but Lu­na did not seem to have no­ticed; she ap­peared sin­gu­lar­ly un­in­ter­est­ed in
Har­ry had pulled Peakes’s bat from him and ap­peared to be de­mon­strat­ing how to hit a Bludger to­ward an on­com­ing Cad­wal­lad­er . A blind­ing, sick­en­ing pain ... a flash of light . And the next thing he knew, he was ly­ing in a re­mark­ably warm and com­fort­able bed and
“I want to find McLaggen and kill him,” said Madam Pom­frey . “You will stay here un­til I dis­charge you, Pot­ter, or I shall call the head­mas­ter.” She bus­tled back in­to her of­fice .
Ron could tell he was noth­ing short of thrilled that McLaggen had messed up so bad­ly . Har­ry lay there, star­ing up at the patch of light on the ceil­ing . “I could hear the match com­men­tary from here,” said Ron .
Gin­ny, weep­ing over his life­less form, con­fessed her feel­in­gs of deep attrac­tion to him while Ron gave them his bless­ing . “I saw Mal­foy sneaking off with a cou­ple of girls who didn’t look like they want­ed to be with him,” said Har­ry sharply .
“I’ve nev­er seen him go­ing along any of the se­cret pas­sage­way on the map?” Ron sug­gest­ed Ron, yawn­ing . “Well then, I dun­no,” said Ron .
Har­ry re­flect­ed in the dark­ness, the third time that he had been brought to the hos­pi­tal wing be­cause of a Quid­ditch in­ju­ry. Last time he fell­en off his broom due to the pres­ence of de­men­tors around the pitch, and the time be­fore that, all the bones had been removed from his arm by the in­cur­ably in
Ron awoke with a yelp. “What’s going­ing — ?” Har­ry point­ed his wand hasti­ly at the door of Madam Pom­frey’s of­fice . Then he scram­bled to the end of his bed for a bet­ter look at what was going on . “Look at the ick­le crea­tures squab­bling, bitey bitey,
Har­ry and Ron both leapt out of their beds and wrenched the two elves apart, though they con­tin­ued to try and kick and punch each oth­er . Peeves clutched at his throat, gulped, then swooped from the room mak­ing ob­scene ges­tures but un­able to speak, ow­ing to the fact that his tongue had just glued it­self to the roof of his mouth
“Yeah, I did,” said Har­ry, sink­ing in­to a bow even as he wished him a painful death . “Kreach­er will do what­ev­er Mas­ter wants,” said Kreach­ter .
Dob­by would be hon­ored to help Har­ry Pot­ter! “Come to think of it, it would be good to have both of you,” said Harry . “Mas­ter wants me to fol­low the youngest of the Mal­foys?” croaked Kreach­er .
Har­ry and Ron left the hos­pi­tal wing first thing on Mon­day morn­ing . Ron and Hermione are okay. And don’t tell any­one what you’re doing­ing. Just stick to Mal­foy like a cou­ple of wart plas­ters .
Hermione looked ter­ri­fied at the sight of the ap­proach­ing sixth years . She dropped the heavy brass scales she was car­ry­ing . “I swear they’re getting­ting small­er,” said Ron rea­son­ably .
“I just don’t want my Quid­ditch team messed up again!” asked Hermione . “Oh, hi, Lu­na.” She thrust what ap­peared to be a green onion, a large spot­ted toad­stool, and a con­sid­er­able amount of what looked like cat lit­ter in­to Ron’s hands, fi­nal­ly pulling out a rather grub­by scroll
“I can’t re­mem­ber en­joy­ing com­men­tary more! What is this, by the way?” he added . “Oh, it’s a Gur­dy­root,” she said, stuff­ing the cat lit­ter and the toad­stool back in­to her bag .
Ron looked sulky and an­noyed when he ap­peared at break­fast half an hour lat­er . Har­ry saw an in­ex­pli­ca­ble smirk cross her face . Ron hur­ried out through the por­trait hole and off to the head­mas­ters of­fice .
“Aha!” she cried, point­ing dra­mat­ical­ly at Har­ry as she blinked at him . “My dear Sybill,” said Dum­ble­dore in a deeply wound­ed voice .
Dum­ble­dore said, “Div­ina­tion is turn­ing out to be much more trou­ble than I could have fore­seen, nev­er hav­ing stud­ied the sub­ject my­self” Har­ry asked. “No,” said Dumble­denore . “Pro­fes­sor Trelawney still isn’t hap­py Firen­ze is teaching­ing, then?” Har­
Har­ry had asked him to ex­tract from Pro­fes­or Slughorn . There was a lit­tle si­lence . “I see,” said Dumble­dore even­tu­al­ly .
“Well, no, sir, be­cause Ron got poi­soned —” asked Dum­ble­dore . “I would have ex­pect­ed noth­ing else, while your best friend was in dan­ger . I thought I made it clear to you how very im­por­tant that mem­ory is. In­deed, I did my best to im­press up­on you that it is the most cru­cial
“Oth­er things on your mind,” Dum­ble­dore fin­ished the sen­tence for him. “I see.” Har­ry felt strange­ly di­minished, as though he shrunk a lit­tle since he had en­tered the room . “May I hope, then, that you will give this mat­ter high­er pri­or­ity from now on? There will be little point in our meet­ing 
“You re­mem­ber where that was?” said Har­ry quick­ly . “Yes, sir,” said Dum­ble­dore .
Dum­ble­dore in­di­cat­ed the two lit­tle crys­tal bot­tles gleam­ing be­side the Pen­sieve . “I shall then be glad of your opin­ion as to whether the con­clusions I have drawn from them seem like­ly,” he said . Har­ry said he had failed in the task of re­triev­ing the Hor­crux mem­or
Sev­er­al teach­ers, Pro­fes­sor Slughorn amongst them, sug­gered to set up ap­point­ments, put him in touch with use­ful con­tacts . “At Bor­gin and Burkes?” Har­ry re­peat­ed, stunned. “I think you will see what attrac­tions the place held for him when we have en­tered Hokey’s mem­or
Hog­warts was where he had been hap­pi­est; the first and only place he felt at home . Har­ry felt slight­ly un­com­fort­able at these words . “Sec­ond­ly, the cas­tle is a stronghold of an­cient mag­ic,” he said .
Pro­fes­sor Dip­pet told him that he was too young at eigh­teen, but in­vit­ed him to reap­ply in a few years, if he still wished to teach . “How did you feel about that, sir?” asked Har­ry hes­itant­ly .
Volde­mort was sent to per­suade peo­ple to part with their trea­sures for sale by the part­ners . “I’ll bet he was,” said Har­ry, un­usu­al­ly gift­ed at do­ing this.” “Well, quite,” said Dum­ble­dore, with a faint smile .
Har­ry tum­bled through dark noth­ing­ness and land­ed in a sit­ting room in front of an im­mense­ly fat old la­dy . She was looking­ing in­to a small jew­eled mir­ror and dab­bing rouge on­to her al­ready scar­let cheeks with a large pow­der puff . The ti­ni­est and old­est house­elf
Hep­zibah Smith looked a long way from love­ly in his opin­ion . The room was so crammed with ob­jects that it was dif­fi­cult to see how any­body could nav­igate their way across it with­out knock­ing over at least a dozen things . There were cab­in­ets full of lit­tle lac­quered box­es .
“You naughty boy, you shouldn’t have!” squealed old Hep­zibah . “You do spoil this old la­dy, Tom. ... Sit down, sit down. You look pale. They over­work you at that shop, I’ve said it a hun­dred times.” She asked, ba­tring her lash­es .
“Oh, Mr. Burke, phooey!” said Hep­zibah, wav­ing a lit­tle hand . “I’ve some­thing to show you that I’ve nev­er shown M. Burke!” said Volde­mort qui­et­ly .
Har­ry saw what looked like a small gold­en cup with two fine­ly wrought han­dles . Hep­zibah thought he saw a red gleam in his dark eyes . “A badger,” mur­mured Volde­mort, ex­am­ing the en­grav­ing up­on the cup .
The elf obe­di­ent­ly took the boxed cup, and turned her at­ten­tion to the much flat­ter box in her lap . There up­on the smooth crim­son vel­vet lay a heavy gold­en lock­et . Volde­mort reached out his hand, with­out in­vi­ta­tion this time, and held it up to the light, star­ing at it .
“That’s right!” said Hep­zibah, de­light­ed, ap­par­ent­ly, at the sight of Volde­mort gaz­ing at her lock­et . “I had to pay an arm and a leg for it, but I couldn’t let it pass, not a re­al trea­sure like that, had to have it for my col­lec­tion. There was no mis­tak­ing it this time
Hokey the house­elf was con­vict­ed by the Min­istry of poi­son­ing her mistress’s evening co­coa by ac­ci­dent.” “No way!” said Har­ry an­gri­ly . “I see we are of one mind,” said Dum­ble­dore .
“It was con­clud­ed that she had not meant to do it, but be­ing old and con­fused —” “Volde­mort mod­ified her mem­ory, just like he did with Morfin!” “Yes, that is my con­clusion too,” said Dum­ble­dore . “She was old, she ad­mit­ted to hav­ing tam­pered with the drink, and no­body
Hep­zibah’s fam­ily had re­al­ized that two of her great­est trea­sures were miss­ing . But be­yond doubt that the cup and the lock­et were both gone . The as­sis­tant who had worked at Bor­gin and Burkes had van­ished . He had no idea where he had gone; they were as sur­prised as any­one at his dis­ap­pear
“Mad to you, per­haps, but not to Volde­mort,” said Dum­ble­dore . “I hope you will un­der­stand in due course ex­act­ly what those ob­jects meant to him, Har­ry, but you must ad­mit that it is not dif­fi­cult to imag­ine that he saw the lock­et, at least, as right­ful­ly his
Har­ry dived af­ter Dum­ble­dore through the shift­ing sil­ver mass . Fawkes slum­ber­ing hap­pi­ly on his perch . He looked very sim­ilar to the Dumble­Dore . The one dif­fer­ence be­tween present­day of­fice and this one was that it was snow­ing in the past .
“Good evening, Tom,” said Dum­ble­dore eas­ily. “Won’t you sit down?” “Thank you,” said Volde­mort . “May I of­fer you a drink?” he said, smil­ing .
“I know what you are known as,” said Dum­ble­dore . “I’m afraid, you will al­ways be Tom Rid­dle. It is one of the ir­ri­tat­ing things about old teach­ers.” He raised his glass as though toast­ing Volde­mort, whose face re­mained ex­pres­sion­less .
Dum­ble­dore waited for Volde­mort to talk first . “I have re­turned,” he said, af­ter a lit­tle while, “lat­er, per­haps, than Pro­fes­sor Dip­pet ex­pect­ed .
“You call it ‘great­ness,’ what you have been do­ing, do you?” asked Dum­ble­dore del­icate­ly . “Of some kinds of mag­ic,” said Volde­mort . It was a taut leer, an evil thing, more threat­en­ing than a look of rage .
“I am yours to com­mand,” said Volde­mort . “You are mis­tak­en,” said Dum­ble­dore .
Dum­ble­dore set down his emp­ty glass and drew him­self up in his seat . “Oh, you want to come back to Hog­warts, but you do not want to teach any more than you want­ed to when you were eigh­teen. Why not try an open re­quest for once?” Volde­mort sneered .
Volde­mort looked less like Tom Rid­dle than ev­er, his fea­tures thick with rage . “No, noth­ing,” said Dum­ble­dore, al­so stand­ing .
Har­ry was still burn­ing with cu­rios­ity and did not move at once . “Oh, he def­inite­ly want­ed the De­fense Against the Dark Arts job,” said Dum­ble­dore .
Har­ry was itch­ing to try it out, but thought it best not to in front of Hermione . There had been a cer­tain amount of ex­cite­ment ear­li­er when they had come back from din­ner to find a new sign on the no­tice board that an­nounced the date for their Ap­pari­tion Test .
Ron strug­gling to fin­ish a vi­cious­ly dif­fi­cult es­say for Snape . Har­ry ful­ly ex­pect­ed to re­ceive low marks on his, be­cause he dis­agreed with Snape on the best way to tack­le de­men­tors . “I’m telling you, the stupid Prince isn’t going to be
“You’re going about it the wrong way,” said Hermione . “On­ly you can get the mem­ory, Dum­ble­dore says. That must mean you can per­suade Slughorn where oth­er peo­ple can’t. It’s not a ques­tion of slip­ping him a po­tion, any­one could do that,” said Ron .
Hermione turned faint­ly pink, but mere­ly said, “Don’t let Laven­der hear you say­ing that.” “1 won’t,” said Ron in­to his hands . “Why don’t you ditch her if you want to fin­ish it?” asked Har­ry .
Har­ry had just closed the Half­Blood Prince’s book, yawn­ing, when — Crack! Hermione let out a lit­tle shriek; Ron spilled ink all over his fresh­ly com­plet­ed es­say . The house­elf bowed low and ad­dressed his own gnarled toes .
Har­ry hes­itat­ed be­fore an­swer­ing, be­cause he had not told Her­mione about set­ting Kreach­er and Dob­by to tail Mal­foy . “Well. they’ve been fol­low­ing M.­fay for me,” croaked Kreach–er .
Dob­by shud­dered from the tas­sel of his tea cozy to the toes of his socks and then ran at the fire, as though about to dive in­to it . Har­ry, to whom this was not en­tire­ly un­ex­pect­ed, caught him around the mid­dle and held him fast .
“Har­ry Pot­ter, sir,” squeaked Dob­by, his great orblike eyes shin­ing in the fire­light . “Mal­foy got in­to our head­quar­ters there last year, so I’ll be able to get in and spy on him, no prob­lem.”
“But I don’t think you will, Har­ry,” said Hermione slow­ly . “You’ve done bril­liant­ly, Dob­by,” said Kreach­er .
“Yeah, it’s great,” said Ron glum­ly, who was at­tempt­ing to mop up the sodden mass of ink chat . “What’s all this about him go­ing up there with a va­ri­ety of stu­dents’?” said Hermione .
“They’re stupid enough to do what they’re told even if he won’t tell them what he’s up to, but he doesn’t want them to be seen lurk­ing around out­side the Room of Re­quire­ment... so they’ve been walking past him all the time and not re­al­iz­ing it!” guf­fawed Ron. “Blimey... no won­der they don’t look too hap­p
“Well, they wouldn’t, would they, if he’s shown them his Dark Mark?” said Har­ry . “Yes, we will,” Hermione said, getting to her feet and stretch­ing .
Har­ry was in a state of great an­tic­ipa­tion over break­fast the fol­low­ing morn­ing . He had a free pe­ri­od be­fore De­fense Against the Dark Arts and was de­ter­mined to spend it trying­ing to get in­to the Room of Re­quire­ment . Hermione was rather os­ten­ta­tious­ly show­ing
Hermione jerked the Prophet out from un­der Harrys hand and unfolded it to look at the front page . “You should go and find Slughorn and start ap­peal­ing to his better na­ture” asked Ron .
Har­ry and Ron were ar­rest­ed for trying to kill his grand­parents . They fin­ished their break­fast in si­lence . Hermione set off imme­di­ate­ly for An­cient Runes; Ron for the com­mon room . He still had to fin­ish his con­clu­sion on Snape’s de­men­tor.
Three times he walked past the door; then, his heart pound­ing with ex­cite­ment, he opened his eyes and faced it . “Okay... I thought the wrong thing...” He pon­dered for a mo­ment then set off again, eyes closed, con­cen­trat­ing as hard as he could . He thought hard for sev­er­al min­utes be­fore strid­ing off once more .
Har­ry swore. Some­one screamed. He looked around to see a gag­gle of first years running back around the cor­ner, ap­parent­ly un­der the im­pres­sion that they had just en­coun­tered a par­tic­ular­ly foul­mouthed ghost . “Late again, Pot­ter,” said Snape cold­ly as he hur­ried in­to the seat be­side Ron
“Be­fore we start, I want your de­men­tor es­says,” said Snape . “And I hope for your sakes they are bet­ter than the tripe I had to en­dure on re­sist­ing the Im­perius Curse?” Sea­mus, “I’ve been won­der­ing, how do you tell the dif­fer­ence be­tween an In­ferius and a
Har­ry took a deep breath and con­tin­ued calm­ly, though his in­sides were boil­ing . The In­ferius is a corpse that has been re­an­imat­ed by a Dark wiz­ard’s spells . It is not alive, it is mere­ly used like a pup­pet to do the .
Ron shook her off by mak­ing a de­tour in­to the boys’ bath­room with Har­ry . “I would ex­pect noth­ing more so­phis­ti­cat­ed from you, Ronald Weasley, the boy so sol­id he can­not Ap­pa­rate half an inch across a room” .
“I just can’t get the hang of Ap­pari­tion.” “You might as well do the ex­tra prac­tice ses­sions in Hogsmeade and see where they get you,” said Har­ry rea­son­ably. “It’ll be more in­ter­est­ing than try­ing to get in­to a stupid hoop any­way. Then, do it with me over the sum­mer — Myr­t
“I came and saw you in your bath once, re­mem­ber?” Har­ry said plain­tive­ly . “Maybe if you two left, he’d come back again.” And she looked hope­ful­ly to­ward the door .
Myr­tle gave a howl of rage and dived back in­to the toi­let . “You’re right,” he said, swing­ing his schoolbag back over his shoul­der . Ron joined Hermione and the rest of the sixth years who would turn sev­en­teen in time to take the test in a fort­night .
Har­ry had lagged be­hind af­ter ev­ery Po­tions les­son that week in an at­tempt to cor­ner Slughorn . He had gone to his office and knocked, but received no re­ply, though on the sec­ond oc­ca­sion he was sure he had heard the quick­ly sti­fled sounds of an old gramo­phone .
Gre­go­ry Goyle sprint­ed up the stairs, slow­ing down on­ly when he reached the cor­ner in­to the Cor­ri­dor . He be­gan to creep, very slow­ly, to­ward the very same lit­tle girl, clutch­ing her heavy brass scales, that Hermione had so kind­ly helped a fortnight be­fore . There was no sign of the Room of Re­quire­ment
Goyle gave a high­pitched scream of ter­ror, threw the scales up in­to the air, and sprint­ed away . It gave Har­ry a most agree­able feel­ing of pow­er as he tried to re­mem­ber what form of words he had not yet tried . The wall was just as door­less as ev­er, but this hope­ful mood did not last long .
“His office isn’t here,” said Har­ry . “He’s not there. Ap­par­ent­ly he’s gone away again.” “No,” said Tonks .
Ron and Hermione would soon be back for lunch . “I did it — well, kind of!” Ron told Har­ry en­thu­si­as­ti­cal­ly when he caught sight of him . "I was sup­posed to be Ap­pa­rat­ing to out­side Madam Pud­di­foots Tea Shop and I overshot it a bit, end­ed up near Scriv­en­shaft
“Oh, she was per­fect, ob­vi­ous­ly,” said Ron, be­fore Hermione . “Have you been up at the Room of Re­quire­ment all this time?” “Yeah, she said she’d come to vis­it Dum­ble­dore.” “I’ll be surprised if he doesn’t pop the ques­tion soon,” said Har­ry .
“I had a thought,” said Har­ry ten­ta­tive­ly . “You don’t think she can have been... you know... in love with Sir­ius?” Hermione stared at him. “I won­dered whether it hadn’t be­come... You know... him.” “Goes back to what I said, doesn’t it?” said Ron .
Har­ry had been thwart­ed, both in his at­tempts to find out what Mal­foy was doing­ing, and in his ef­forts to start a con­ver­sa­tion with Slughorn . They were sitting with Ron in a sun­ny cor­ner of the court­yard af­ter lunch . Ron gave a start and tried to hide be­hind Hermione as a girl came
Ar­agog died last night . Har­ry, Ron and Hermione, you met him and you know how spe­cial he was . It would mean a lot to me if you’d nip down for the buri­al lat­er this evening .
“I’ve been down to see him by night be­fore,” said Har­ry . “We’ve risked a lot to help Ha­grid out, but af­ter all — Ar­agog’s dead,” said Ron firm­ly .
“Harry, that’s it — get lucky!” said Ron sud­den­ly . “What on earth is more im­por­tant than this mem­ory, Har­ry?” asked Hermione.
“I’m los­ing track of what’s hap­pen­ing to ev­ery­one’s rel­atives, to be hon­est,” said Hermione . “Well, their broth­er was at­tacked by a were­wolf.” “He died?” re­peat­ed Har­ry, shocked .
“I knew it — the ma­ni­ac who likes at­tack­ing kids, the one Lupin told me about!” said Har­ry . “You’ve got to get that mem­ory,” said Hermione .
Ernie syco­phan­ti­cal­ly, rub­bing his hands to­geth­er . “Oh, surprise me,” said Slughorn air­ily . It could not have been plain­er that this les­son was a waste of time .
Har­ry skimmed through his copy of Ad­vanced Po­tion­Mak­ing and found a heav­ily cor­rect­ed Half­Blood Prince’s ver­sion of “An Elixir to In­duce Eu­pho­ria” . “Well, now, this looks ab­so­lute­ly won­der­ful,” said Slughorn an hour and a half lat­er, clap
Ernie and Mal­foy had pro­nounced his Hic­cup­ing So­lu­tion mere­ly “pass­able” . Slughorn hur­ried away as fast as he could . He emp­tied the caul­dron, packed up his things, left the dun­geon .
“He — he just failed,” whis­pered Hermione, as Ron joined them . “Bad luck, mate, but you’ll pass next time — we can take it to­geth­er.” “Yeah, I s’pose,” said Ron grumpi­ly .
“You’ve nev­er tak­en any!” said Ron, as though ex­plain­ing the ob­vi­ous . Har­ry took out the rolled up socks at the bot­tom of his trunk and ex­tract­ed the tiny, gleam­ing bot­tle . Then, slow­ly but sure­ly, an ex­hil­arat­ing sense of in­fi­nite op­por­t
Ron and Hermione to­geth­er look­ing aghast . “No, Har­ry — you’ve got to go and see Slughorn, re­mem­ber?” said Ron .
“I know what I’m doing­ing ... or at least” he strolled con­fi­dent­ly to the door— “Fe­lix does.” He pulled the In­vis­ibil­ity Cloak over his head and set off down the stairs . Har­ry heard Ron splut­ter­ing be­hind him as he dart­ing across the room away from them .
Pro­fes­sor Slughorn was walking to Ha­grid’s in con­ver­sa­tion . It was not strict­ly on the way, but it seemed clear to Har­ry that this was a whim on which he should act . He di­rect­ed his feet im­me­di­ate­ly to­ward the veg­etable patch .
“Oh, I quite agree,” said Pro­fes­sor Sprout warm­ly . “This should al­low for a few leaves for each of my third years, and some to spare if any­body over­stews them!” Har­ry pul­let I off the cloak with a flour­ish .
“Well, sir, it’s Ha­grid,” said Har­ry, who knew that the right thing to do just now was to tell the truth . “He’s pret­ty up­set. But you won’t tell any­one, Pro­fes­sor? I don’t want trou­ble for him. I’m sure he can’t be up to any­thing very dread­ful.” “I heard ru­mors there were a
Slughorn seemed to be talk­ing more to him­self than Har­ry now . “Well, if you want­ed to come, Pro­fes­sor, Ha­grid would prob­ably be re­al­ly pleased,” he said.
“Yen came,” croaked Ha­grid, when he saw Har­ry emerg­ing from the In­vis­ibil­ity Cloak in front of him . “Don — don mat­ter .
“Blimey, no,” said Ha­grid, wip­ing his stream­ing eyes on the bot­tom of his shirt . “The oth­er spi­ders won’t let me any­where near their webs now Ar­agog’s gone!” The hon­est an­swer was “yes”; Har­ry re­called with painful ease the scene .
“Tha’s — tha's righ’ nice of him, that is, an’ not turnin’ yeh in ei­ther. I’ve nev­er re­al­ly had a lot ter do with Ho­race Slughorn be­fore.. Well.. he’d’ve liked that, Ar­agog would...” “Are we going to bury him here, Ha­grid, in your gar­
Slughorn hur­ried over the thresh­old, sev­er­al bot­tles in his arms, and wear­ing a somber black cra­vat . “Tha’s very nice of yeh,” said Ha­grid .
Har­ry thougln heard the tin­kle of bot­tles as Slughorn bent over the pin­cers, ex­am­in­ing the enor­mous hairy head . “I didn’t know yeh were in­ter­est­ed in crea­tures like Ar­agog, Ho­race.” “My dear Ha­grid, I re­vere them,” said Slug Horn, step­ping back from the body 
Slughorn wore a sat­is­fied smirk as he stepped up to the rim of the pit . He said, in a slow, im­pres­sive voice, “Farewell, Ar­agog, king of arachnids, whose long and faith­ful friend­ship those who knew you won’t for­get! ... May your manyeyed de­scen­dants ev­er flour­
Har­ry poured most of the first bot­tle in­to one of Ha­grid’s buck­et­sized mugs . Slughorn raised his mug high to Ar­agog .
“I had him from an egg, yeh know,” said Ha­grid mo­rose­ly . “I used it fer bindin’ on ban­dages an stuff if a crea­ture gets in ju­red,” said Hicks, shrug­ging .
Har­ry re­filled Ha­grid’s mug and his own, and ques­tioned him about the crea­tures that lived in the for­est these days . He stopped mop­ping his eyes and en­tered hap­pi­ly in­to a long ex­pla­na­tion of bowtruck­le hus­bandry . Slughorn had not yet man­aged to bring off the Re­fill­ing Charm with­out say­
Ha­grid and Slughorn were sitting side by side, arms around each oth­er, singing a slow sad song about a dy­ing wiz­ard called Odo . “Me dad was no age ter go ... nor were yer mum’ an’ dad, Har­ry” . He grasped Harry’s arm and shook it, slop­ing it down his chin as he drained it .
“And Odo the hero, they bore him back home To the place that he’d known as a lad,” sang Slughorn plain­tive­ly . “Can’t car­ry a tune to save my life,” said Har­ry qui­et­ly. “Oh dear. Yes, that was — was ter­ri­ble in­deed.” “No — don’t sup­pose you re­mem­ber it, Har­
“I — I didn’t,” said Slughorn in a hushed voice . “He told me she needn’t have died. He on­ly want­ed me. She could have run.” “Oh dear,” breathed Har­ry re­morse­less­ly .
Har­ry looked stea­di­ly in­to Slughorn’s tearfilled eyes . The Po­tions mas­ter seemed un­able to look away . “It isn’t a ques­tion ... If it were to help you, of course .
Slughorn raised a pudgy hand and pressed his fin­gers to his mouth . He looked for a mo­ment like an enor­mous­ly over­grown ba­by . “I am ashamed of what — of what that mem­ory shows.” Ha­grid twitched in his sleep and snored on.
Horcruxes Har­ry could feel the Fe­lix Fe­li­cis wear­ing off as he creeped back in­to the cas­tle . The front door had re­mained un locked for him, but on the third floor he met Peeves and on­ly nar­row­ly avoided de­tec­tion by div­ing side­ways through one of his short­cuts . “Why did it have to change at mid
“I would go and take it up with Dum­ble­dore if he was here, be­cause he’s the one who want­ed me to —” Har­ry said . “I had it from the Bloody Baron, who saw him ar­rive,” said Nick. “Oh, groan­ing and clank­ing up on the As­tron­omy Tow­er .
Har­ry was hurtling back along the cor­ri­dor and with­in min­utes . He was saying­ing “tof­fee eclairs” to Dum­ble-dore’s gar­goyle . “Sir — I’ve got the mem­ory from Slughorn.” Then his face split in a wide smile .
Ho­race Slughorn bowed obe­di­ent­ly over the Pensieve and felt his feet leave the of­fice floor . Dum­ble­dore land­ed be­side Har­ry just as Rid­dle asked, “Sir is it true that Pro­fes­sor Mer­ry­thought is re­tir­ing?” . “Tom, Tom, if I knew I couldn’t tell
Tom Rid­dle smiled as the oth­ers laughed again . Har­ry no­ticed that he was by no means the el­dest of the group of boys .
Slughorn heaved him­self out of his arm­chair and car­ried his emp­ty glass over to his desk . A move­ment be­hind him made him look around; Rid­dle was still stand­ing there . “Sir, I won­dered what you know about.’ ‘Project for De­fense Against the Dark Arts, is it?”
Har­ry had had too much ex­pe­ri­ence of trying to whee­dle in­for­ma­tion out of re­luc­tant peo­ple not to rec­og­nize a mas­ter at work . “Well, it can’t hurt to give you an overview,” said Slughorn .
“Well, you split your soul, you see,” said Slughorn, “and hide part of it in an ob­ject out­side the body . Then, even if one’s body is at­tacked or de­stroyed, one can­not die, for part of the soul re­mains earth­bound and un­dam­aged . “... few would want it, Tom, very few. Death would be pre­fer­able.” But his ex­pres­sion was
Slughoin shak­ing his head like an old ele­phant both­ered by mosquitoes . “No, sir, of course not,” said Rid­dle quick­ly .
“Of course,” he mut­tered, “this is all hy­po­thet­ical, what we’re dis­cussing, isn’t it? All aca­dem­ic,” said Rid­dle quick­ly . “All the same, Tom . keep it qui­et, what I’ve told — that’s to say, What we’ve discussed. It’s a banned sub­ject at Ho
Har­ry sud­den­ly no­ticed that ev­ery sin­gle one of the old head­mas­ters and head­mis­tresses in the por­traits around the walls was awake and lis­ten­ing in on their con­ver­sa­tion . A cor­pu­lent, red nosed wiz­ard had ac­tu­al­ly tak­en out an ear trum­pet 
“A bit... or more,” said Dum­ble­dore . “I don’t un­der­stand, sir,” said Har­ry .
Rid­dle wanted di­ary to in­habit or pos­sess some­body else, so that Slytherin’s mon­ster would be un­leashed again . “Well, he didn’t want his hard work to be wast­ed,” said Har­ry .
“Quite cor­rect,” said Dumble­dore, nod­ding . The point of a Hor­crux is, as Pro­fes­sor Slughorn ex­plained, to keep part of the self hid­den and safe . That par­tic­ular frag­ment of soul is no more; you saw to that .
Lord Volde­mort has seemed to grow less hu­man with the pass­ing years, and the trans­for­ma­tion he had un­der­gone seemed to me to be on­ly ex­plain­able if his soul was mu­ti­lat­ed be­yond the realms of what we might call ‘usu­al evil’ . “Why couldn’t he make a Sorcer­er’s Stone, or steal one
Sorcerer’s Stone would ap­peal less than Hor­crux­es to Lord Volde­mort . Lord Voldes­morn, Lord s;n«l Dum­ble­dore, said he tried to do just that, five years ago .
Volde­mort would be en­tire­ly de­pen­dant on the Elixir, and if it ran out, or was con­tam­inat­ed, or if the Stone was stolen, he would die just like any oth­er man . Of course he was pre­pared to drink it, but on­ly to re­gain a body .
Con­vinced, he in­tend­ed to con­tin­ue to re­ly on his Hor­crux­es . He would need noth­ing more, if on­ly he could . he was al­ready im­mor­tal, you see ... or as close to Im­mortal as any man can be . But now, Har­ry, the cru­cial mem­ory you have suc­ceed­e
the idea of a sev­en­part soul would great­ly ap­peal to Lord Volde­mort.
“He made sev­en Hor­crux­es?” said Har­ry . “I am glad to see you ap­pre­ci­ate the mag­ni­tude of the prob­lem,” said Dum­ble­dore calm­ly .
“Yes in­deed,” said Dumble­dore, and raised his black­ened, burned­look­ing hand . “I have made it my busi­ness to dis­cov­er as much as I can about Volde­mort’s past life,” said How­ev­er .
Lord Volde­mort liked to col­lect tro­phies, and he pre­ferred ob­jects with a pow­er­ful mag­ical his­to­ry His pride, his be­lief in his own su­pe­ri­or­ity, his de­ter­mi­na­tion to carve for him­self a startling place . “The di­ary, as you have said your­self, was proof that 
Lord Volde­mort would pre­fer ob­jects that, in them­selves, have a cer­tain grandeur . “The lock­et!” said Har­ry loud­ly, “Huf­flepuff’s cup!” “Yes,” said Dum­ble­dore, smil­ing, “I would be pre­pared to bet” .
“Do you think that’s why he re­al­ly want­ed to come back to Hog­warts, sir?” said Har­ry . “My thoughts pre­cise­ly,” said Dum­ble­dore . He def­inite­ly had two — he may have found three — that is the best we can do for now.”
How­ev­er, if my cal­cu­la­tions are cor­rect, Volde­mort was still one Hor­crux short of his goal of six when he en­tered your par­ents’ house with the in­ten­tion of killing you . He be­lieved that in killing you, he was de­stroy­ing the dan­ger the prophe­cy had out­lined . You would cer­tain
“I have been looking­ing for a very long time. I think. There are hope­ful signs,” said Dum­ble­dore . “Oh yes,” said Har­ry, thor­ough­ly tak­en aback .
“Does Volde­mort know when a Hor­crux is de­stroyed, sir? Can he feel it?” Har­ry asked, ig­nor­ing the por­traits . He was not aware that the di­ary had been mu­ti­lat­ed and robbed of all its pow­ers .
Lu­cius was sup­posed to wait for Volde­mor­ts sayso, and he nev­er re­ceived it . No doubt he thought that Lu­cus would not dare do any­thing with the Hor­crux oth­er than guard it care­ful­ly, but was count­ing too much up­on Lu­ci’s fear of a mas­ter who had been gone for years . Of course, Lu
Volde­mort will be a mor­tal man with a maimed and di­min­ished soul . Nev­er for­get, though, that while his soul may be dam­aged be­yond re­pair, his brain and his mag­ical pow­ers will remain in­tact . “Yes, Har­ry, you can love,” said Dum­ble­dore firm­ly .
Volde­mort sin­gled you out as the per­son who would be most dan­ger­ous to him . “No, it doesn’t!” said Dum­ble­dore, sound­ing im­pa­tient now .
Volde­mort himself cre­at­ed his worst en­emy, just as tyrants ev­ery­where do . Al­ways he was on the lookout for the one who would chal­lenge him . He not on­ly hand­picked the man most like­ly to fin­ish him, but he hand­ing him unique­ly dead­ly weapons!
Har­ry had nev­er seen him so ag­itat­ed . It is Volde­mort’s fault that you were able to see in­to his thoughts, his am­bi­tions, that you even un­der­stand the snake­like lan­guage in which he gives or­ders .
Lord Volde­mort can’t pos­sess you with­out en­dur­ing mor­tal agony, as he dis­cov­ered in the Min­istry . You have flit­ted in­to a mir­ror that re­flect­ed your heart’s de­sire, and it showed you on­ly the way to thwart .
“Of course you’ve got to! But not be­cause of the prophe­cy!” said Dum­ble­dore . He thought of his moth­er, his fa­ther, and Si­nus . “I’d want him fin­ished,” said Har­ry qui­et­ly .
Harry Potter and the Half-Blood Prince Chapter 24: Sectumsempra Ex­haust­ed but de­light­ing with his night’s work . They were both sat­is­fy­ing­ly im­pressed by the way he had whee­dled the mem­ory out of Slughorn and pos­itive­ly awed when he told them about Volde­mort’s Hor­crux
Ron wav­ing his wand very vague­ly in the di­rec­tion of the ceil­ing with­out paying the slight­est bit of at­ten­tion to what he was doing­ing . “Ron, you’re mak­ing it snow,” said Hermione pa­tient­ly .
“Well — you don’t mind it’s over, do you?” Ron admit­ted . “It was pret­ty bad while she was yelling, but at least I didn’t have to fin­ish it.” “Cow­ard,” said Hermione, though she looked amused. “Well, it was a bad night for ro­mance all around. Gin­ny and Dean split up too, Har­ry.”
“Now, now, boys,” squeaked Pro­fes­sor Flitwick re­proach­fully . They raised their wands, con­cen­trat­ing with all their might, and point­ed them at their flasks .
Har­ry bare­ly no­ticed that they were climbing through the por­trait hole in­to the sun­ny com­mon room, and on­ly vague­ly reg­is­tered the small group of sev­enth years clus­tered to­geth­er there, un­til Hermione cried, “Katie! You’re back! Are you okay?” She said hap­pi­ly .
“You def­inite­ly went in­to the ladies’ in the Three Broom­sticks.” “Well, I know I pushed open the door,” said Katie . “I’d bet­ter go, I wouldn’t put it past McG­ona­gall to give me lines even if it is my first day back.” Ron, Ron, and Hermione hur­ried af­ter her friends .
Har­ry pulled his copy of Advanced Po­tion­Mak­ing out of his bap, and looked up Fe­lix Fe­li­cis . “Blimey, its se­ri­ous­ly com­pli­cat­ed,” said Hermione .
Har­ry saw the Sec­tum­sem­pra spell, cap­tioned “For En­emies” . He had still not found out what it did, main­ly be­cause he did not want to test it around Hermione, but was con­sid­er­ing try­ing it out on McLaggen next time he came up be­hind him un­awares . The on­ly per­son who was not par
Gin­ny bob­bing up and down in front of the goal posts as the Quaf­fle sped to­ward him . Har­ry bel­low­ing or­ders at McLaggen be­fore be­ing knocked out cold . Ron had received more Bludger in­ju­ries dur­ing prac­tice . Some­times he thought that the post­Laven­der Ron might not mind
Har­ry could not help him­self talk­ing to Gin­ny, laugh­ing with her, walking back from prac­tice with her . It would have been ide­al if Slughorn had giv­en an­oth­er of his lit­tle par­ties, for Ron would not be around — but un­for­tu­nate­ly, Sul­horn seemed to have gil­en them up .
Ron was long­ing for a stroke of luck that would make him hap­pi­er than his best friend and his sis­ter falling for each oth­er . There seemed no chance of ei­ther while the fi­nal Quid­ditch game of the sea­son was loom­ing.
Gryffind­or beat Raven­claw by a mar­gin of three hun­dred points . if they won by less than three points, they would come sec­ond to Raven-claw . If they lost by more than a point they would be third be­hind Huf­flepuff .
mem­bers of ri­val Hous­es at­tempt­ing to in­tim­idate op­pos­ing teams . un­pleas­ant chants about in­di­vid­ual play­ers be­ing re­hearsed loud­ly as they passed . the game had be­come in­ex­tri­ca­bly linked in Har­ry’s mind with suc­cess or fail­ure in
Har­ry had not for­got­ten his oth­er am­bi­tion: find­ing out what Mal­foy was up to in the Room of Re­quire­ment . He was still checking the Ma­raud­er’s Map, and as he was un­able to lo­cate Mal­Foy on it, de­duced . Al­ing hope that he would ev­er suc­ceed in getting­ting in­side
Har­ry rushed off in­to a near­by bath­room to throw up yet again . Hermione hav­ing dashed off to see Pro­fes­sor Vec­tor about a mis­take she thought she might have made in her last Arith­man­cy essay . For a mo­ment he could not find Mal­foy any­where and as­sumed he must in­deed be in
Moan­ing Myr­tle’s voice echo­ing loud­ly around the tiled room . “Don’t. tell me what’s wrong ... I can’t.” “No one can help me,” said Mal­foy . Hex missed Har­ry by inch­es, shat­ter­ing the lamp on the wall be­side him .
Har­ry at­tempt­ed a Le­gLock­er Curse that back­fired off the wall be­hind Mal­foy’s ear and smashed the cis­tern be­neath Moan­ing Myr­tle, who screamed loud­ly . He stag­gered back­ward and col­lapsed on­to the wa­ter­logged floor with a great splash, his 
Har­ry was still watch­ing, hor­ri­fied by what he had done, bare­ly aware that he too was soaked in blood and wa­ter . When Snape had per­formed his coun­ter­curse for the third time, he halflifted Mal­foy in­to a stand­ing po­si­tion . “You need the hos­pi­tal wing. There may be a cer
Har­ry’s throat went dry. He knew what Snape was going to do and he had nev­er been able to pre­vent it . Snape re­turned ten min­utes lat­er. “Go,” he said to Moan­ing Myr­tle, and she swooped back in­to her toi­let at once . “I — read about it some­where.” “Where?” “I can’t remem­
Half-Blood Prince’s copy of Ad­vanced Po­tion­Mak­ing swam hazi­ly to the fore­front of his mind . He stared in­to Snape’s black eyes, hop­ing against hope that Snape had not seen what he feared, but — “Bring me your schoolbag,” said Snape soft­ly, “and all of your school­books. Bring them to me here. Now!” There was no
Ron was standing at the top of the stairs, looking­ing be­wil­dered at the sight of Har­ry . “I need your book, but what about the Half­Blood —” “I’ll ex­plain lat­er!” Ron pulled his copy of Advanced Po­tion­Mak­ing out of his bag and hand­ed it over . Here, he seized his school­bag, ig­nor­ing the amazed looks
There were winged cat­apults and Fanged Fris­bees, some still with enough life in them to hov­er half­heart­ly over the moun­tains of oth­er forbid­den items . there were chipped bot­tles of con­gealed po­tions, hats, jew­els, cloaks; a heavy, blood­stained axe . There were thou­sands and 
Har­ry hur­ried for­ward in­to one of the many al­ley­ways be­tween all this junk . He turned right past an enor­mous stuffed troll, ran on a short way, took a left at the bro­ken Van­ish­ing Cab­in­et in which Mon­tague had got lost the pre­vi­ous year, fi­nal­ly paus­ing be­side a large cup­board
Ron’s copy of Ad­vanced Po­tion­Mak­ing was ex­tract­ed by Snape . “You’re quite sure of that, are you, Pot­ter?” “Yes,” said Snape, still breath­ing hard .
“I — I don’t agree, sir,” said Snape, still re­fus­ing to look in­to Snape’s eyes . “Ten o’clock,” whis­pered Snape with a smile that showed his yel­low teeth . And he left the bath­room with­out an­oth­er word .
Har­ry had al­ready been called out of the com­mon room to en­dure fif­teen high­ly un­pleas­ant min­utes in the hos­pi­tal wing by Pro­fes­sor McG­ona­gall . Snape had told the staff pre­cise­ly what had hap­pened . “I told you there was some­thing wrong with that Prince per­son,” Hermione
Gin­ny and Dean would make up dur­ing the post­match eu­pho­ria . The thought went through Har­ry like an icy knife . “I don’t be­lieve this,” said Hermione .
“I wish 1 ; hadn’t done it, and not just be­cause I’ve got about a dozen de­ten­tions!” said Har­ry quick­ly . “I’m not de­fend­ing what I did!” said Hermione .
Hermione and Gin­ny stared in op­po­site di­rec­tions . Ron looked ner­vous­ly at Har­ry, then snatched up a book at ran­dom . Harry felt un­believ­ably cheer­ful all of a sudden .
Slytherin taunts to be en­dured next day, not to men­tion much anger from fel­low Gryffind­ors . Har­ry would have ex­changed all Fe­lix Fe­li­cis in the world to be walking down to the Quid­ditch pitch with Ron, Gin­ny, and the oth­ers . It was al­most un­bear­able to turn away from the mass of stu­dents stream­
Har­ry had knocked on his door and en­tered the un­pleas­ant­ly fa­mil­iar of­fice that Snape, de­spite teach­ing floors above now, had not va­cat­ed . “Mr. Filch has been looking­ing for some­one to clear out these old files,” said Snape soft­ly. “They are the records of oth­er Hog­warts wrong­d
Bertram Aubrey and Sir­ius Black sneered . Har­ry felt the fa­mil­iar boil­ing sen­sa­tion in the pit of his stom­ach . It was, as Snape had clear­ly planned, use­less, bor­ing work, punc­tu­at­ed .
Har­ry’s stom­ach start­ed rum­bling when the clock showed half past twelve . “I think that will do,” he said cold­ly . ‘Mark the place you have reached. You will con­tin­ue at ten o’clock next Sat­ur­day.” Yes, sir. “Quid agis?” Snape said ten­ta­tive­ly to the Fat La­dy, won­der­ing what
Har­ry looked over the top of Gin­ny’s head to see Dean Thomas holding a shat­tered glass in his hand, and Romil­da Vane looking­ing as though she might throw some­thing . At last he found him, still clutch­ing the sil­ver Cup and wear­ing an ex­pres­sion ap­pro­pri­ate to hav­ing been clubbed over the head .
Harry Potter and the Half-Blood Prince Chapter 25: The Seer Overheard The fact that Har­ry Pot­ter was going out with Gin­ny Weasley seemed to in­ter­est a great num­ber of peo­ple, most of them girls . Af­ter all, it made a very nice change to be talked about be­cause of some­thing that was mak­ing him hap­pi­er than he could re­
‘I’ve giv­en my per­mis­sion doesn’t mean I can’t with­draw it,’ scoffed Gin­ny . ‘You filthy hyp­ocrite! What about you and Laven­der, thrash­ing around like a pair of eels all over the place?’
Gin­ny’s O.W.L.s were ap­proach­ing and she was there­fore forced to re­vise for hours in­to the night . On one such evening, when Har­ry was sitting be­side the win­dow in the com­mon room, sup­pos­ed­ly fin­ish­ing his Her­bol­ogy home­work . ‘What about?’ said Ron sus­pi­cious
Har­ry was sure Snape had not yet giv­en up hope of lay­ing hands on the Prince’s book, and was de­ter­mined to leave it where it was while Snape re­mained on the look­out . ‘I’m not dropping­ping it,’ said Hermione firm­ly, ‘un­til you’ve heard me out. Now, I’ve been trying to find out a bit about who might make a hob
Har­ry looked si­mul­ta­ne­ous­ly cross and sullen, with heavy brows and a long, pal­lid face . The pic­ture showed a skin­ny girl of around fif­teen . She looked yel­lowed with age; Ron leaned over for a look .
The truth is that you don’t think a girl would have been clever enough,’ said Hermione . ‘How can I have hung round with you for five years and not think girls are clever?’ said Har­ry, stung by this. ‘I just know the Prince was a bloke, I can tell. This girl hasn’t got any­thing to do with it’ .
Ron ro­bust­ly drew his fin­ger sig­nif­icant­ly across his own throat, ‘I wouldn’t be here to dis­cuss it, would I?’ ‘Nor am I,’ said Har­ry quick­ly. ‘But he healed all right, didn’t he? Back on his feet in no time’ . ‘You still got de­ten­tion with Snape this Sat­ur­day?’ sighe
Jim­my Peakes was holding out a scroll of parch­ment and scan­ing it . ‘He wants me to go to his office as quick as 1 can!’ They stare at each oth­er. ‘Blimey,’ whis­pered Ron. ‘Bet­ter go and see, hadn’t I?’ said Har­ry, jump­ing to his feet .
Har­ry hur­ried for­wards and helped Pro­fes­sor Trelawney to her feet . Some of her glit­ter­ing beads had be­come en­tan­gled with her glass­es . ‘You may well ask!’ she said shril­ly. ‘I was strolling along, brood­ing up­on cer­tain Dark por­tents 1 hap­pen to have glimpse­ed
‘I - well - I didn’t know stu­dents knew about -’ said Pro­fes­sor Trelawney . ‘You screamed ... it sound­ed as though you were hurt...’ .
‘I don’t know that it was say­ing any­thing,’ said Pro­fes­sor Trelawney . ‘It was ... whoop­ing.’ ‘Glee­ful­ly,’ she said, nod­ding. ‘Was it male or fe­male?’ ‘ ? would haz­ard a guess at male,’ he said. ‘As though it was cel­ebrat­ing?’ .
‘No, I did not, as I say, it was pitch -’ She stopped and glared at him sus­pi­cious­ly . ‘I think you’d bet­ter tell Pro­fes­sor Dum­ble­dore about this voice and ev­ery­thing go­ing dark and be­ing thrown out of the Room,’ said Har­ry .
‘You were nev­er much of a Seer ... but you were a won­der­ful Ob­ject...’ she said soul­ful­ly . ‘I miss hav­ing you in my class­es, Har­ry,’ she replied soul­fully .
Har­ry mum­bled some­thing in­dis­tinct . ‘I well re­mem­ber my first in­ter­view with Dum­ble­dore,’ went on Pro­fes­sor Trelawney .
'Har­ry?' she looked back over her shoul­der, hav­ing on­ly just re­al­ised that Har­ry was no longer with her; he had stopped walk­ing and they were now ten feet from each oth­er . he was standing stock­still as waves of shock crashed over him, wave af­ter wave, oblit­er­at­ing ev­ery­thing ex­cept the in­for­
Snape and Pe­ter Pet­ti­grew to­geth­er had sent Volde­mort hunt­ing af­ter Lily and James and their son ... Noth­ing else mat­tered to Har­ry just now . ‘Har­ry - I thought we were going to see the Head­mas­ter?’ ‘You stay here,’ said Pro­fes­sor Trelawney again. ‘I was going to tell him how I was as­sault
Har­ry re-mem­bered why he had been ea­ger to come to Dum­ble­dore’s of­fice in the first place . Rage and re­sent­ment fought shock and ex­cite­ment: for sev­er­al mo­ments, Har-ry could not speak . ‘I’m not scared!’ said Harry at once, and it was per­fect­ly true .
‘I’m com­ing,’ said Har­ry, al­most be­fore Dum­ble­dore . ‘Harry, I promised you that you could come with me, and I stand by that prom­ise, but it would be very wrong of me not to warn you that this will be ex­ceed­ing­ly dan­ger­ous’ .
Har­ry was re­frain­ing from yelling with enor­mous dif­fi­culty . And then, sud­den­ly, he could not stop him­self . ‘AND YOU LET HIM TEACH HERE AND HE TOLD VOLDE­MORT TO GO AF­TER MY MUM AND DAD!’ He wanted­ed to rage and storm at Dum­ble­dore, but 
‘Pro­fes­sor Snape made a ter­ri­ble mis­take, sir, he was lis­ten­ing at the door!’ ‘Please let me fin­ish.’ Dum­ble­dore wait­ed un­til Har­ry had nod­ded curt­ly, then went on . ‘He was still in Lord Volde­mort’s em­ploy on the night he heard the
Har­ry breathed deeply for a few mo­ments in an ef­fort to steady him­self . ‘Well, I don’t!’ said Dum­ble­dore, as loud­ly as be­fore. ‘He’s up to some­thing with Dra­co Mal­foy right now, right un­der your nose’ .
‘I ... they’re up to some­thing!’ said Har­ry and his hands curled in­to fists as he said it . ‘Pro­fes­sor Trelawney was just in the Room of Re­quire­ment, try­ing to hide her sher­ry bot­tles, and she heard Mal­foy whoop­ing, cel­ebrat­ing! He’s trying to mend some­some dan­ger
‘I take you with me on one con­di­tion: that you obey any com­mand I might give you at once, and with­out ques­tion.’ ‘Of course. Be sure to un­der­stand me, Har­ry. I mean that you must fol­low even such or­ders as “run”, “hide” or “go back”. Do I have your word?’ ‘If I tell you to leave me, and save your­self, you will do
‘I’m fine,’ said Har­ry short­ly, rac­ing past them . He flung open his trunk and pulled out the Ma­raud­er’s Map and a pair of balledup socks . Then he sped back down the stairs and in­to the com­mon room, skid­ding to a halt where Ron and Hermione looked­ing stunned .
‘I know it was Mal­foy cel­ebrat­ing in the Room of Re­quire­ment. Here -’ He shoved the Ma­raud­er’s Map in­to Hermione’s hand . ‘You’ve got to watch him and you’ve had to watch Snape, too. Use any­one else who you can rus­tle up from the DA,’ said Har­ry curt­ly. ‘Er - why do I
Ron un­wrapped the tiny little bot­tle of gold­en po­tion, looking awestruck . ‘We don’t want it, you take it, who knows what you’re going to be fac­ing?’ ‘I’ll be with Dum­ble­dore,’ said Har­ry .
Dum­ble­dore said he is off in­to Hogsmeade for a drink . ‘I some­times of­fer Ros­mer­ta my cus­tom, or else vis­it the Hog’s Head ... or I ap­pear to. It is as good a way as any of dis­guis­ing one’s true des­ti­na­tion.’ They made their way down the drive in the
Dark­ness de­scend­ed fast as they walked and by the time they reached the High Street night was falling in earnest . Lights twin­kled from win­dows over shops and as they neared the Three Broom­sticks they heard rau­cous shout­ing . ‘- and stay out!’ shouted Madam Ros­mer­ta . A minute lat­er they turned the cor­ner in­to the side street where the Hog
Harry Potter and the Half-Blood Prince Chapter 26: The Cave Har­ry could smell salt and hear rush­ing waves . A tow­er­ing cliff stood be­hind them, a sheer drop, black and face­less . It was a bleak, harsh view, the sea and the rock un­relieved by any tree or sweep of grass or sand .
Tom Rid­dle and his youth­ful vic­tims vis­it­ed this spot . No Mug­gle could reach this rock un­less they were un­com­mon­ly good moun­taineers . And boats can­not ap­proach the cliffs, the wa­ters around them are too dan­ger­ous .
Dum­ble­dore beck­oned Har­ry to the very edge of the rock where a se­ries of jagged nich­es made footholds leading to boul­ders that lay half­sub­merged in wa­ter and clos­er to the cliff face . The low­er rocks were slip­pery with sea­wa­ter .
Dum­ble­dore slid from the boul­der, land­ed in the sea, and be­gan to swim, with a per­fect breast­stroke . Har­ry pulled off his cloak, stuffed it in­to his pock­et, and fol­lowed . He struck out for the shim­mer­ing, shrink­ing light now mov­ing deep­er .
Har­ry was standing in the mid­dle of the cave, his wand held high as he turned slow­ly on the spot, ex­am­in­ing the walls and ceil­ing . “Yes, this is the place,” said Dum­ble­dore sim­ply .
Twice Dum­ble­dore walked right around the cave, touch­ing as much of the rough rock as he could, oc­ca­sion­al­ly paus­ing, run­ning his fin­gers back­ward and for­ward over a par­tic­ular spot . “Here,” he said, “The en­trance is con­cealed.” Har­ry had long since learned that bangs and smoke were more of­ten
Har­ry stayed quite still; he did not want to break Dum­ble­dores con­cen­tra­tion . He said qui­et­ly, “Oh, sure­ly not. So crude.” “You’ve got to give the door some­thing?”
“Some­times, how­ev­er, it is un­avoid­able,” said Dum­ble­dore . “I’ll do it, I’m —” He did not know what he was going to say . There was a flash of sil­ver, and a spurt of scar­let; the rock face was pep­pered with dark, glis­ten­ing drops .
a misty green­ish light shone far away in what looked like the mid­dle of the lake . Har­ry found the place and the si­lence op­pres­sive, un­nerv­ing . “Do you think the Hor­crux is here?” he said fi­nal­ly .
Har­ry had not ex­pect­ed this, but cleared his throat and said loud­ly, wand aloft, “Ac­cio Hor­crux!” With a noise like an ex­plo­sion, some­thing very large and pale erupt­ing out of the dark wa­ter some twen­ty feet away . “Some­thing, I think, that is ready to re­spond should we at­tempt to seize
“But we don’t know what the thing was,” said Har­ry . “I doubt very much that there is on­ly one of them,” said Dum­ble­dore .
Har­ry had no idea what Dum­ble­dore meant; this patch of dark bank was ex­act­ly like ev­ery oth­er bit as far as he could tell . This time he was run­ning his hand, not over the rocky wall, but t hrough the thin air, as though ex­pect­ing to find and grip some­thing in­vis­ible .
Im­me­di­ate­ly a thick cop­pery green chain ap­peared out of thin air . Har­ry gasped as the ghost­ly prow of a tiny boat broke the sur­face . “Mag­ic al­ways leaves traces,” said Dum­ble­dore .
Har­ry looked down in­to the boat. It re­al­ly was very small . “I think he would have been pre­pared to risk what was, to his mind, the most un­like­ly pos­si­bil­ity that some­body else would find it,” said Dum­ble­dore .
Volde­mort would nev­er have ex­pect­ed a six­teenyear old to reach this place: I think it un­like­ly that your pow­ers will reg­is­ter com­pared to mine” . Dum­ble­dore stood aside and Har­ry climbed care­ful­ly in­to the boat . There was no sound oth­er than the silken rus­tle of the boat’s
Har­ry stared down in­to the wa­ter, look­ing for the vanished hand . He had his an­swer be­fore Dum­ble­dore could re­ply; the wan­dlight had slid over a fresh patch and showed him, this time, a dead man ly­ing face­up inch­es be­neath the sur­face, his open eyes mist­ed as though with cob­web
Lord Volde­mort, who of course se­cret­ly fears both, dis­agrees . But once again he re­veals his own lack of wis­dom . It is the un­known we fear when we look up­on death and dark­ness, noth­ing more”
Har­ry turned his head to look at the green­ish glow to­ward which the boat was still in­ex­orably sail­ing . It seemed hours and hours ago that he had met Pro­fes­sor Trelawney, who had giv­en Ron and Hermione Fe­li­cis . “Near­ly there,” said Dum­ble­dore cheer­ful­ly .
Dum­ble­dore ap­proached the basin and Har­ry fol­lowed . Side by side, they looked down in­to it . “Some­thing more wor­ri­some than blood and bod­ies, how­ev­er.” “Sir, no, don’t touch — !”
“Out of the way, please, Har­ry,” said Dum­ble­dore . He raised his wand and made com­pli­cat­ed move­ments over the sur­face of the­po­tion, mur­mur­ing sound­less­ly . “You think the Hor­crux is in there, sir?” “Oh yes.” “Oh, I can on­ly con­clude that this po­tion is sup­posed to be drunk.”
“Oh, I doubt that it would work like that,” said Dum­ble­dore eas­ily . “Lord Volde­mort would not want to kill the per­son who reached this is­land” Har­ry couldn’t be­lieve it .
Har­ry hes­itat­ed, look­ing in­to the blue eyes that had turned green . “You swore, did you not, to fol­low any com­mand I gave you?” “Yes, but—” “I warned you, did I not, that there might be dan­ger?” “No, but —,” said Dum­ble­dore .
“Why can’t I drink the po­tion in­stead?” asked Har­ry des­per­ate­ly . “I —all right, but—,” Dum­ble­dore low­ered the crys­tal gob­let .
Dum­ble­dore plunged the glass blind­ly back in­to the basin, re­filled it, and drank once more . Har­ry won­dered whether he was in pain .
“You’ve got to keep drink­ing, re­mem­ber? You told me you had to keep drinking. Here ..” Har­ry forced the gob­let back to Dum­ble­dore’s mouth and tipped it . “I don’t want to. ... I’m here —” “Make it stop.. yes, this’ll make it stop,” moaned Dumble­deore .
Dum­ble­dore drank, as though it was an an­ti­dote Har­ry of­fered him, but up­on drain­ing the gob­let, he sank to his knees, shak­ing un­con­trol­lably . “This will make it stop, Pro­fes­sor,” Har­ries said, his voice crack­ing .
Dum­ble­dore drank like a child dy­ing of thirst, but when he had fin­ished, he yelled again as though his in­sides were on fire . Har­ry scooped up a tenth gob­let full of po­tion and felt the crys­tal scrape the bot­tom of the basin .
“No!” shouted Har­ry, who had stood to re­fill the gob­let again . In­stead he dropped the cup in­to the basin, flung him­self down be­side Dum­ble­dore, and heaved him over on­to his back . “No, you’re not dead, you said it wasn’t poi­son, wake up,” he cried, his wand point­ing at Dumble
Har­ry dropped to his knees be­side Dum­ble­dore, raised his head, and brought the glass to his lips — but it was emp­ty . Once more, for a sec­ond, clear wa­ter gleamed with­in it, but as he ap­proached Dumble­den­dores mouth, the wand van­ished again . “Sir, I’m try­ing, I'm try
A slimy white hand had gripped his wrist, and the crea­ture to whom it be­longed was pulling him, slow­ly, back­ward across the rock . The sur­face of the lake was no longer mir­rorsmooth; it was churn­ing, and ev­ery­where Har­ry looked, white heads and hands were emerg­ing from the dark wa­ter .
Har­ry yelled, “Sec­tum­sem­pra! SEC­TUM­SEM­PRA!” But they walked on, un­feel­ing, their shrunk­en hands out­stretched to­ward him . Arme cold as death, and his feet left the ground as they lift­ed him and be­gan to car­ry him, slow­ly and sure­ly, back to the wa­ter .
The In­feri bumped in­to each oth­er, at­tempt­ing, blind­ly, to es­cape the fire in which they were en­closed . Dum­ble­dore scooped the lock­et from the bot­tom of the stone basin and stowed it in­side his robes . They ac­com­pa­ny­ing them to the wa­ters edge, where
Har­ry stag­gered a lit­tle as he at­tempt­ed it; all his ef­forts seemed to be go­ing in­to main­tain­ing the ring of pro­tective flame around them . Once they were both safe­ly jammed in­side again, the boat be­gan to move back across the black wa­ter, away from the rock .
“Don’t wor­ry, sir,” said Har­ry at once, anx­ious about Dum­ble­dore’s ex­treme pal­lor and by his air of ex­haus­tion . “The pro­tec­tion was .. af­ter all... wellde­signed,” said Dumble­denore faint­ly .
“I am not wor­ried, Har­ry,” said Dum­ble­dore, his voice a lit­tle stronger de­spite the freez­ing wa­ter . “We’re near­ly there.... I can Ap­pa­rate us both back.” Harry Potter and the Half-Blood Prince Chapter 27: The Lightning-Struck Tower Once back un­der the star­ry sky .
Har­ry whis­pered with dif­fi­culty; he sud­den­ly re­alised that he had a sear­ing stitch in his chest . ‘Sir, are you all right?’ said Dum­ble­dore weak­ly, though the cor­ners of his mouth twitched .
Dum­ble­dore looked around des­per­ate­ly for help, but there was no­body to be seen . ‘We need to get you up to the school, sir ... Madam Pom­frey ...’ ‘No,’ said Dumble­denore. ‘I need Severus - but I’m go­ing to knock on a door, find a place you can stay - then I can run and get Madam -’ ‘
‘Madam Ros­mer­ta, can he come in­to the Three Broom­sticks while I go up to the school and get help for him?’ ‘If you help me sup­port him,’ said Har­ry, not lis­ten­ing to her, ‘I think we can get him in­side -’ ‘What has hap­pened?’ asked Dum­ble­dore .
Har­ry raised his wand at once . ‘Ac­cio Ros­mer­ta’s brooms.’ A sec­ond lat­er they heard a loud bang as the front door burst open .
Har­ry pulled his Cloak out of his pock­et and threw it over him­self be­fore mount­ing his broom . Madam Ros­mer­ta was al­ready tot­ter­ing back to­wards her pub . As they sped to the cas­tle they glanced side­ways at Dum­ble­dore . And fear swelled in­side him like a ven­omous
Dum­ble­dore was un­do­ing the en­chantments he him­self had set around the cas­tle . The Dark Mark was glit­ter­ing di­rect­ly above the As­tron­omy Tow­er . Har­ry land­ed next to him sec­onds lat­er and looked around .
‘Go and wake Severus,’ said Dum­ble­dore faint­ly but clear­ly . Tell him what has hap­pened and bring him to me. Do noth­ ing else, speak to no­body else and do not re­move your Cloak. I shall wait here.’ ‘But - You swore to obey me, Har­ry - go!’ .
Dum­ble­dore showed no sign of pan­ic or dis­tress . He looked across at his dis­armer and said, ‘Good evening, Dra­co’ . ‘A ques­tion 1 might ask you. Or are you acting­ing alone?’ Har­ry saw Mal­foy’s pale eyes shift back to Dumble­Dore in the green­ish glare .
Dra­co Mal­foy stood im­pris­oned with­in his own in­vis­ible, par­al­ysed body, star­ing at the two of them, his ears strain­ing to hear sounds of the Death Eaters’ dis­tant fight . Al­bus Dum­ble­dore, in­cred­ibly, smiled . ‘You don’t know what I’m ca­pa­ble of,’ said Har­ry more force­
‘Some­body is putting up a good fight,’ said Dum­ble­dore . ‘You were saying­ing ... yes, you have man­aged to in­tro­duce Death Eaters in­to my school which, I ad­mit, I thought im­pos­si­ble ... how did you do it?’ But Mal­foy said noth­ing: ‘Per­haps you ought to get on with the job alone’ .
Mal­foy gulped and took sev­er­al deep breaths, glar­ing at Dum­ble­dore, his wand point­ing di­rect­ly at the lat­ter’s heart . Then, as though he could not help him­self, he said, ‘1 had to mend that bro­ken Van­ish­ing Cab­in­et that no one’s used for years. The one Mon­tague
Dum­ble­dore slid a little down the ram­parts, the strength in his legs ap­parent­ly fad­ing, and Har­ry strug­gled fruit­less­ly, mute­ly against the en­chant­ment bind­ing him . ‘As a mat­ter of fact, I did,’ said Mal­foy who seemed to draw courage and com­fort from
‘He’s been of­fer­ing me plen­ty of help - want­ing all the glo­ry for him­self - wanting­ing a bit of the ac­tion - ‘What are you doing­ing? Did you do the neck­lace, that was stupid, it could have blown ev­ery­thing’ . ‘Very grat­ify­ing,’ said Dumble­dore mild­ly .
Mal­foy looked ner­vous­ly over his shoul­der again, then back at Dum­ble­dore, who went on, ‘So poor Ros­mer­ta was forced to lurk in her own bath­room and pass that neck­lace to any Hog­warts stu­dent who en­tered the room un­ac­com­pa­nied?’ And the poi­soned mead ... well, poor Mr Fil
'Yeah, I got the idea from them,' said Mal­foy . There was an­oth­er yell from be­low, rather loud­er than the last . ‘... of course ... Ros­mer­ta. How long has she been un­der the Im­perius Curse?’ ‘Got there at last, have you?’ .
‘I had one and she had the oth­er and 1 could send her mes­sages -’ asked Dum­ble­dore . His voice was light and con­ver­sa­tion­al, but Har­ry saw him slip an inch low­er down the wall as he said it . ‘You care about me say­ing “Mud­blood” when I’m about to kill you?’ said Mal­foy, with a twist­e
‘I am a lit­tle puz­zled about how it hap­pened ... you knew that I had left the school? But of course,’ he an­swered his own ques­tion, ‘Ros­mer­ta saw me leav­ing, she tipped you off us­ing your in­ge­nious coins, I’m sure ...’ ‘That’s right,’ said Mal­foy . ‘We de­
Dum­ble­dore, Mal­foy and Har­ry stood in ac­tu­al spi­ral stair­case . Har-ry’s heart thun­dered un­heard in his chest . ‘I’m standing here with a wand - I’m about to kill you -’ said Dumble­de­mort . 'I’ve got to do it! He'll kill me! He’ll
‘I did not dare speak to you of the mis­sion with which I knew you had been en­trust­ed, in case he used Legili­men­cy against you,’ con­tin­ued Dum­ble­dore . ‘No harm has been done, you have hurt no­body, though you are very lucky that your un­in­ten­tion­al vic­tims sur­vive ... I can help you, Dra­
Har­ry thought he saw it drop by a frac­tion . But sud­den­ly foot­steps were thun­der­ing up the stairs and a sec­ond lat­er Mal­foy was buf­fet­ed out of the way as four peo­ple in black robes burst through the door on to the ram­parts . It seemed the Death Eaters had won the fight be­low .
Har­ry could smell a mix­ture of dirt, sweat and, un­mis­take­ably, of blood com­ing from him . His filthy hands had long yel­low­ish nails . ‘Is that you, Fen­rir?’ asked Dum­ble­dore. ‘No, I can­not say that I am ...’ .
Mal­foy was showing less resolu­tion than ev­er . He looked ter­ri­fied as he stared in­to Dum­ble­dore’s face, which was even paler, and rather low­er than usu­al . ‘He’s not long for this world any­way, if you ask me!’ .
‘Old age, in short ... one day, per­haps, it will hap­pen to you ... if you are lucky ...’ yelled the Death Eater, sud­den­ly vi­olent . ‘Al­ways the same, weren’t yeh, Dum­by, talk­ing and do­ing noth­ing, noth–ing, I don’t even know why the Dark Lord’s both­er­ing to kill
Har­ry’s heart was ham­mer­ing so hard it seemed im­pos­si­ble that no­body could hear him stand­ing there, im­pris­oned by Dum­ble­dore’s spell . ‘Dra­co, do it, or stand aside so one of us -’ screeched the wom­an, but at that pre­cise mo­ment the door to the ram­parts burst open once more
A jet of green light shot from the end of Snape's wand hit Dum­ble­dore square­ly in the chest . Har­ry’s scream of hor­ror nev­er left him; silent and unmov­ing, he was forced to watch as Dumble­denore was blast­ed in­to the air .
He seized Malfoy by the scruff of the neck and forced him through the door ahead of the rest; Grey­back and the squat broth­er and sis­ter fol­lowed, the lat­ter both pant­ing ex­cit­ed­ly . What was holding him par­alyzed against the wall was not mag­ic, but hor­ror and shock . He threw the In­vis­ibil­ity Cloak aside
Har­ry fell backward, with filthy mat­ted hair in his face, the stench of sweat and blood fill­ing his nose and mouth, hot greedy breath at his throat . Snape and Mal­foy seemed to have forced their way through the fight un­scathed . It was the were­wolf, Fen­rir .
Har­ry felt Fen­rir col­lapse against him; with a stu­pen­dous ef­fort he pushed the were­wolf off and on­to the floor as a jet of green light came fly­ing to­ward him . There were two bod­ies ly­ing there, but there was no time to in­ves­ti­gate . He now saw red hair flying like flames in front of Amy­cus, who was throwing
“Har­ry, where did you come from?” Gin­ny cried, but there was no time to an­swer her . Snape must not es­cape, he must catch up with Snape - “Take that!” shout­ed Pro­fe­sor McG­ona­gall . He launched him­self af­ter them but his foot caught on some­thing, and next mo­ment he was ly­ing across some­one’
Har­ry scram­bled up from the floor and be­gan to sprint along the cor­ri­dor, ig­nor­ing the bangs is­su­ing from be­hind him, the yells of the oth­ers to come back . Snape had an im­mense head start; he could hear noth­ing but his own ham­mer­ing heart .
Har­ry pelt­ed to­ward a short­cut, hop­ing to over­take the broth­er and sis­ter and close in on Snape and Mal­foy, who must sure­ly have reached the grounds by now . he burst through a tapestry at the bot­tom and out in­to a cor­ri­dor where a num­ber of be­wil­dered and pa­ja­macla
Har­ry flew across the en­trance hall and out in­to the dark grounds . The gi­ant Gryffind­or hour­glass had been hit by a curse, and the ru­bies with­in were still falling, with a loud rat­tle .
Har­ry sped up as an un­bid­den voice in his head said: not Ha­grid too . Some­thing caught him hard in the small of the back and he fell for­ward, his face smack­ing the ground, blood pour­ing out of both nos­trils .
Snape and Mal­foy, how­ev­er, were still run­ning . Har­ry tore past Ha­grid and his op­po­nent, took aim at Snape’s back, and yelled, “Stu­pe­fy!” He missed; the jet of red light soared past Snape's head; Snape shout­ing, “Run, Dra­co!”and turned .
“Cruc -” yelled Har­ry for the sec­ond time, aim­ing for the fig­ure ahead il­lu­mi­nat­ed in the danc­ing fire­light, but Snape blocked the spell again . “You haven’t got the nerve or the abil­ity -“ “In­carc-“ Snape roared, but sneered the spell with an al­most lazy flick of
Har­ry felt the ground shud­der un­der his face as the broth­er and sis­ter obeyed . Push­ing him­self to his feet again, he stag­gered blind­ly to­ward Snape, the man he now hat­ed as much . He was no longer sneering or jeer­ing; the blaz­ing flames showed a face full of rage .
Snape’s pale face, il­lu­mi­nat­ed by the flam­ing cabin, was suf­fused with ha­tred just as it had been be­fore he had cursed Dum­ble­dore . “You dare use my own spells against me, Pot­ter? It was I who in­vent­e them - I, the Half­Blood Prince! And you’d turn my in
Buck­beak had flown at Snape, who stag­gered back­ward as the ra­zor­sharp claws slashed at him . Har­ry strug­gled to his feet, look­ing around grog­gi­ly for his wand, hop­ing to give chase again, but even as his fin­gers fum­bled in the grass, dis­card­ing twigs, he knew it would
Har­ry could smell burnt wood and dog hair; he put out a hand and felt Fang’s warm and alive body quiv­er­ing be­side him . Ha­grid put his hands un­der Harry’s arms and raised him up with such force . “The charm’s ‘Agua­men­ti’ ...” He raised a smol­der­ing pink, flow­ery um­brel­la and said, “Agual­men
Har­ry and Ha­grid poured wa­ter on the house un­til the last flame was ex­tin­guished . In the si­lence and the still­ness, hor­ror rose in­side him . “I was bindin’ up a cou­ple o’ bowtruck­le legs when I heard ‘em .
“Dum­ble­dore wha, Har­ry?” “He’s dead. Snape killed him....” “Don’t say that,” said Ha­grid rough­ly . “I saw it hap­pen.” “Yeh couldn’t’ve.” “You saw it, Ha–grid.” “Made it ...” “I sup­pose he’s got­ta keep his cov­er. Look, let’s get 
Har­ry’s eyes, how­ev­er, were fixed up­on the ground at the foot of the tallest tow­er . He could imag­ine, clear­ly, the scenes in­side as peo­ple moved from room to room, telling each oth­er that Death Eaters had got in, that the Mark was shin­ing over Hog­warts .
Ha­grid fell silent, the thought ap­par­ent­ly too hor­ri­ble to ex­press aloud . Har­ry walked along­side him, feel­ing the aches and pains in his face and his legs . What was re­al and in­es­capable was the aw­ful press­ing in his chest .
Har­ry walked slow­ly for­ward un­til he reached the place where Dum­ble­dore lay and crouched down be­side him . He had known there was no hope from the mo­ment that the full Body­Bind Curse Dumble­Dore had placed up­on him lift­ed, known that it could have hap­pened on­ly be­cause its cast­er was dead, but there was still no prepa
Har­ry pulled out the frag­ment of parch­ment, opened it, and read by the light of the many wands that had now been lit be­hind him: To the Dark Lord I now I will be dead long be­fore you read this but I want you to know that it was I who di­cov­ered your se­cret. I have stolen the re­al Hor­crux and in­tend to de­stroy it as soon as I can.
Har­ry crum­pled the parch­ment in his hand, and his eyes burned with tears as be­hind him Fang be­gan to howl . He did not want to leave Dum­ble­dores side, he didn’t want to move any­where .
Har­ry and Gin­ny walked on, back up steps in­to the en­trance hall . Faces swam on edges of Harry’s vi­sion, peo­ple were peer­ing at him . Fear stirred in Harry's chest again: He had for­got­ten the in­ert fig­ures he had left be­hind .
Grey­back at­tacked him. Madam Pom­frey says he won’t look the same any­more . And a Death Eater’s dead, he got hit by a Killing Curse that huge blond one was fir­ing off ev­ery­where . Har­ry saw Neville ly­ing, ap­par­ent­ly asleep, in a bed near the door .
Har­ry looked over Hermione’s shoul­der and saw an un­rec­og­niz­able face ly­ing on Bill’s pil­low . Madam Pom­frey re­mem­bered how Snape had mend­ed Mal­foy’s Sec­tum­sem­pra wounds so eas­ily with his wand . “Can’t you fix them with a
Lupin looked wild­ly from Gin­ny to Har­ry, as though hop­ing the lat­ter might con­tra­dict her . Lupin col­lapsed in­to a chair be­side Bill’s bed, his hands over his face . He felt like he was in­trud­ing up­on some­thing pri­vate, in­de­cent .
Madam Pom­frey burst in­to tears. It felt like a long time lat­er that the hos­pi­tal door opened again and Pro­fes­sor McG­ona­gall en­tered the ward . There were grazes on her face and her robes were ripped.
“Har­ry, what hap­pened? Ac­cord­ing to Ha­grid you were with Pro­fes­sor Dum­ble­dore,” said Har­ry . “Snape,” re­peat­ed McG­ona­gall faint­ly, falling in­to the chair .
Snape told Dum­ble­dore he hadn’t re­al­ized what he was doing­ing, sor­ry that they were dead.” They all stared at him . “And he didn’t think my moth­er was worth a damn ei­ther,” said Lupin in­cred­ulous­ly .
“This is all my fault,” said Pro­fes­sor McG­ona­gall sud­den­ly . “I sent Fil­ius to fetch Snape tonight, I ac­tu­al­ly sent for him to come and help us!” Lupin firm­ly said .
“I don’t know ex­act­ly how it hap­pened,” said Pro­fes­sor McG­ona­gall dis­tract­ed­ly . “We did like you told us: We checked the Ma­raud­er’s Map and we couldn’t see Mal­foy on it... so I thought he must be in the Room of Re­quire­ment, so me, Gin­ny, and Neville went to keep watch
“He came out of the room about an hour af­ter we start­ing watch,” said Ron . “Any­way,” Gin­ny went on, “he must have been checking­ing whether the coast was clear to let the Death Eaters out, be­cause the mo­ment he saw us he threw some­thing in­to the air and it all went pitch­black -“ “- Pe­ru­vian In­stant Dark­ness Pow­der
Lupin says Ron, Gin­ny, and Neville ran in­to us al­most im­me­di­ate­ly and told us what had hap­pened . We found the Death Eaters min­utes lat­er, head­ing in the di­rec­tion of the As­tron­omy Tow­er . Mal­foy ob­vi­ous­ly hadn’t ex­pect­ed more peo­ple
“Out­side Snape’s office, yes,” whis­pered Hermione, her eyes sparkling with tears, “with Lu­na. We hung around for ages out­side it and noth­ing hap­pened. We didn’t know what was going on up­stairs, Ron had tak­en the map—–It was near­ly mid­night when Pro­fes­sor Flitwick came sprint­ing down in­
“I saw him run­ning to­ward us, but that huge Death Eaters jinx just missed me right af­ter­ward and I ducked and lost track of things,” said Gin­ny. “We were in trou­ble, we were los­ing,” said Tonks in a low voice .
“I saw him run straight through the cursed bar­ri­er as though it wasn’t there,” said Lupin . “He must have known a spell we didn’t,” whis­pered McG­ona­gall .
Mr. and Mrs. Weasley were strid­ing up the ward, Fleur just be­hind them, her beau­ti­ful face ter­ri­fied . “Oh, Bill!” said Pro­fes­sor McG­ona­gall dis­tract­ed­ly .
“We don’t yet know,” said Pro­fes­sor McG­ona­gall . “There will prob­ably be some con­tam­ina­tion, Arthur,” .said Lupin. “It is an odd case, pos­si­bly unique.” Mrs. Weasley took the nastys­melling oint­ment from Madam Pom­frey .
Mrs. Weasley raised her tearstained face, look­ing star­tled . “You theenk, be­cause of these bites, he will not love me?” Fleur said .
“Our GreatAun­tie Muriel,” said Mrs. Weasley af­ter a long pause, “has a very beauti­ful tiara - gob­lin­made - which I am sure I could per­suade her to lend you for the wed­ding.” “Thank you,” said Fleur stiffly. “I am sure zat will be love­ly.” And then, Har­ry did not quite see how it
“I’ve told you a mil­li­on times,” said Lupin, re­fus­ing to meet her eyes . “Tonks de­serves some­body young and whole.” “But she wants you,” said Mr. Weasley .
Pro­fes­sor McG­ona­gall choked with tears, a vast, spot­ted hand­ker­chief in his hand . “Thank you, Ha­grid,” said Pro­Fessor Flitwick, standing up at once and turn­ing to look at the group around Bill’s bed .
Har­ry stood up, mur­mured “See you in a bit” to Ron, Hermione, and Gin­ny, and fol­lowed Pro­fes­sor McG­ona­gall back down the ward . The cor­ri­dors out­side were de­sert­ed and the on­ly sound was the dis­tant phoenix song . It was sev­er­al min­utes be­
Pro­fes­sor McG­ona­gall made an odd move­ment as though steel­ing her­self, then round­ed the’ desk to look at Har­ry, her face taut and lined . In si­lence they as­cend­ing spi­ral stair­case and en­tered the cir­cu­lar of­fice .
Pro­fes­sor Dumble­dore nev­er told him to stop fol­low­ing his or­ders if he died . “I don’t think so,” said Har­ry, shrug­ging .
“Snape!” ejac­ulat­ed Slughorn, who looked the most shak­en, pale and sweat­ing . But be­fore any of them could re­spond to this, a sharp voice spoke from high on the wall . “Thank you, Ev­er­ard,” said Pro­fes­sor McG­ona­gall .
“I am sure Dum­ble­dore would have wanted­ed the school to re­main open for that pupil,” said Pro­fes­sor Sprout . “But will we have a sin­gle pupil af­ter this?” said Slughorn .
“We must fol­low the es­tab­lished pro­cedures. A de­ci­sion should not be made hasti­ly.” Ha­grid, who had been weep­ing silent­ly in­to his large, spot­ted hand­ker­chief through­out this con­ver­sa­tion, now raised puffy red eyes and croaked, “I dun­no, Pro­fe­sor Dumble­d
Pro­fes­sor McG­ona­gall, glanc­ing out of the win­dow at the grounds, check­ing to see whether the Min­is­ter was yet ap­proach­ing, “then I must agree with Fil­ius that the right thing to do is to con­sult the gov­er­nors, who will make the fi­nal de­ci­sion.
Pro­fes­sor Sprout com­plet­ed the sen­tence for him . “Well said! Our stu­dents should pay trib­ute, it is fit­ting. We can ar­range trans­port home af­ter­ward.” “I sup­pose ... yes .. .” said Har­ry, gaz­ing down in­to the grounds .
Har­ry walked straight across the room and through the door to the boys’ dor­mi­to­ries . As he had sus­pect­ed it would be, the room fell silent as he climbed through the por­trait hole . He saw Dean and Sea­mus sit­ting in a group near­by .
“Did you find one? Did you get it? A - a Hor­crux?” said Ron, looking­ing crest­fall­en . “You didn’t get it?” said Har­ry .
Har­ry doubt­ed that he would ev­er feel cu­ri­ous again . As he lay there, he be­came aware sud­den­ly that the grounds were silent . And he knew that ilie phoenix had gone, just as Dum­ble­dore had left the world . Harry Potter and the Half-Blood Prince Chapter 30: The White Tomb .
Sea­mus Finni­gan, on the other hand, re­fused point­blank to ac­com­pa­ny his moth­er home . they had a shout­ing match in the En­trance Hall which was resolved when she agreed that he could re-main be­hind for the fu­ner­al .
Har­ry watched from a win­dow as a gi­gan­tic and hand­some olive­skinned, black­haired wom­an de­scend­ed the car­riage steps and threw her­self in­to the wait­ing Ha­grid’s arms . Mean­while a del­ega­tion of Min­istry of­fi­cials, in­clud­ing the Min­is
Har­ry, Ron, Hermione and Gin­ny were spending all of their time to­geth­er at the very end of the year . The beau­ti­ful wea­er seemed to mock them . Harry could imag­ine how it would have been if Durn­ble­dore had not died . They vis­it­ed the hos­pi­tal wing twice a day .
Gin­ny lat­er, Har­ry, Ron and Hermione sat be­side the open win­dow of the Gryffind­or com­mon room, looking­ing out over the twilit grounds, ‘She’s not that bad’ . ‘Well, I sup­pose if Mum can stand it, 1 can.’ ‘Any­one else we know died?’ said Harry, who be­came an­gry e
Hermione leaned for­wards to­ward Har­ry with a most Hermimioneish look on her face . He did not feel the way he had so of­ten felt be­fore, ex­cit­ed, cu­ri­ous, burn­ing to get to the bot­tom of a mys­tery . There might still be as many as four Hor­crux­es out there some­where and each would need to be
Har­ry had shown hermione the note in­side the lock­et the morn­ing af­ter Dumble­dore’s death, and al­though she had not im­me­di­ate­ly recog­nised the ini­tials as be­long­ing to some ob­scure wiz­ard . ‘No,’ she said sad­ly, ‘there are a cou­ple of rea­
‘I was sort of right about the Half­Blood Prince busi­ness,’ she said ten­ta­tive­ly . ‘D’you have to rub it in, Hermione? How tTy­ou think 1 feel about that now?’ ‘No - no - Har­ry, I didn’t mean that!’ said Ron. ‘It’s just that 1 was right about Eileen Prince once own­ing the book. You see... she
Pure­blood moth­er, Mug­gie fa­ther ... ashamed of his par­ent­age, gave him­self an im­pres­sive new name - Lard Volde­mort - the Half­Blood Prince - how could Dum­ble­dore have missed -?’ He broke off, look­ing out of the win­dow .
‘I don’t ihink he want­ed to as­so­ciate him­self with that book,’ said Hermione qui­et­ly . ‘I’m trying to say, Har­ry, that you’re pulling too much blame on your­self’. ‘No of us could’ve guessed Snape would ... you know’ said Ron .
Har­ry had nev­er at­tend­ed a fu­ner­al be­fore; there had been no body to bury when Sir­ius had died . He won­dered whether Dum­ble­dore’s death would be more re­al to him .
Har­ry thought thai per­haps he had not been able to face break­fast . but Snape’s place had been un­cer­emo­ni­ous­ly filled by Ru­fus Scrim­geour .
Har­ry’s thoughts were in­ter­rupt­ed by a nudge in the ribs from Gin­ny . Pro­fes­sor McG­ona­gall had risen to her feet .
Har­ry saw when he stepped out on to the stone steps from the front doors, to­wards the lake . The warmth of the sun ca­ressed his face as they fol­lowed Pro­fes­sor McG­ona­gall in si­lence to the place where hun­dreds of chairs had been set out in rows . There was a mar­ble ta­ble stand­ing at the front, all chairs fac­ing it 
Har­ry, Ron, Hermione and Gin­ny filed in­to seats at the end of a row be­side the lake . Peo­ple were whis­per­ing to each oth­er; it sound­ed like a breeze in the grass, but the bird­song was loud­er by far . The crowd con­tin­ued to swell; with a great rush of . af­fec­tion
Cor­nelius Fudge walked past them to­wards the front rows, his ex­pres­sion mis­er­able, twirling his green bowler hat as usu­al; Har­ry next recog­nised Ri­ta Skeeter, who, he was in­fu­ri­at­ed to see, had a note­book clutched in her red­takmed hand; and then, with a worse jo
The mu­sic made the hair on Har­ry’s neck stand up and yet it was not un­pleas­ant . It spoke very clear­ly of loss and of de­spair . Then Gin­ny nudged him again and looked round .
Ha­grid seemed to have placed the body care­ful­ly up­on the ta­ble . Now he re­treat­ed down the aisle, blow­ing his nose with loud trum­pet­ing nois­es that drew scan­dalised looks from some, in­clud­ing, Har­ry saw, Do­lores Um­bridge ... but Harry knew that Dum­ble­dore would not have care
Har­ry remem­bered Dum­ble­dore’s idea of a few words: ‘nitwit’, ‘odd­ment’, ’blub­ber’ and ‘tweak 1, and again, had to sup­press a grin ... what was the mat­ter with him? There was a soft splash­ing noise to his left and he saw that the mer­peo­ple had bro­ken the sur­face to
Dum­ble­dore was dead, gone ... he clutched the cold lock­et in his hand so tight­ly that it hurt . But he could not pre­vent hot tears spilling from his eyes . He looked away from Gin­ny and the oth­ers and stared out over the lake . Har­ry saw them stand­ing quite still, halfhid­den in shad­ow, watching the wiz­ards, their bows hanging at
Har­ry could not let any­body else stand be­tween him and Volde­mort; he must aban­don for ev­er the il­lu­sion he ought to have lost at the age of one . There was no wak­ing from his nightmare, no com­fort­ing whis­per in the dark that he was safe re­al­ly, that it was all in his imag­ina­
Bright, white flames had erupt­ed around Dum­ble­dore’s body and the ta­ble up­on which it lay . Har­ry thought, for one heart­stop­ing mo­ment, that he saw a phoenix fly joy­ful­ly in­to the blue, but next sec­ond the fire had van­ished . There were a few more cries of shock as a show­er of ar­rows
Har­ry looked at Gin­ny, Ron and Hermione with the same hard, blaz­ing look that he had seen when she had hugged him af­ter win­ning the Quid­ditch Cup in his ab­sence . He knew that at that mo­ment they un­der­stood each oth­er per­fect­ly, and that when he told her what he was going to do now, she would not say ‘Be
‘What if I don’t care?’ said Gin­ny fierce­ly. ‘What do you think I’d feel if this was your fu­ner­al ... and it was my fault ...’ She looked away from him, over the lake . ‘Smart girl, that Hermione,’ said Har­ry .
Ron, he saw, was now holding­ing Hermione and stroking her hair while she sobbed in­to his shoul­der . With a mis­er­able ges­ture, Har­ry got up, turned his back on Gin­ny and on Dum­ble­dore’s tomb and walked away around the lake . Ru­fus Scrim­geour was limp­ing rapid­ly to­wards him around the bank, lean
Scrim­geour stopped too, leaned on his stick and stared at Har­ry . ‘The word is that you were with him when he left the school the night that he died. There were al­so two broom­sticks up there. The Min­istry can add two and two, Harry.’ ‘Glad to hear it. He didn’t want peo­ple to know’ .
Scrim­geour turned a nasty pur­ple colour high­ly remin­is­cent of Un­cle Ver­non . ‘1 see you are -’ ‘Dum­ble­dore’s man through and through,’ said Har­ry. ‘Volde­mort wants to kill me him­self and Au­rors won’t stop him’ .
Scrim­geour glared at him for an­oth­er mo­ment, then turned and limped away . Har­ry could see Per­cy and the rest of the Min­istry del­ega­tion wait­ing for him, cast­ing ner­vous glances at the sob­bing Ha­grid and Grawp, who were still in their seats .
‘Maybe it won’t,’ said Ron. ‘We’re not in any more dan­ger here than we are at home, are we? Ev­ery­where’s the same now. I’d even say Hog­warts is safer, there are more wiz­ards in­side to de­fend the place’ .
The crowd had al­most dispersed now, the strag­glers giv­ing the mon­umen­tal fig­ure of Grawp a wide berth as he cud­dled Ha­grid, whose howls of grief were still echo­ing across the wa­ter . ‘No -’ said Har­ry quick­ly; ‘We’ll go with you, wher­ev­er you’re go­ing’ 
‘You said to us once be­fore,’ said Hermione qui­et­ly . ‘We’re with you what­ev­er hap­pens’, said Ron. ‘But, mate, you’re going to have to come round my mum and dad’s house .
