M r. and Mrs. Dursley, of number four, Privet Drive, were the last people you’d expect to be involved in anything strange or mysterious, because they just didn’t hold with such nonsense . The Dursleys had a small son called Dudley and in their opinion there was no finer boy anywhere .
No one noticed a large, tawny owl flutter past the window . At half past eight, Mr. Dursley picked up his briefcase, pecked Mrs. Durley on the cheek, and tried to kiss Dudley good-bye but missed . It was on the corner of the street that he noticed the first sign of something peculiar .
Mr. Dursley was enraged to see that a couple of them weren’t young at all . He drummed his fingers on the steering wheel and his eyes fell on a huddle of these weirdos standing quite close by . The traffic moved on and a few minutes later, he arrived in the parking lot, his mind back on drills .
The Potters were whispering excitedly, too, and he couldn’t see a single collecting tin . Fear flooded him. He looked back at the whisperers as if he wanted to say something to them . He put the receiver back down and stroked his mustache, thinking...no, he was being stupid.
The old man hugged Mr. Dursley around the middle and walked off . He thought he had been called a Muggle, whatever that was . The tabby cat he’d spotted was sitting on his garden wall .
owls normally hunt at night and are hardly ever seen in daylight . experts are unable to explain why the birds have suddenly changed their sleeping pattern . Mr. Dursley sat frozen in his armchair .
Mrs. Dursley sipped her tea through pursed lips . He decided he didn’t dare. Instead he said, as casually as he could, “Their son — he’d be about Dudley’s age now, wouldn’t he?” “Harry. Nasty, common name, if you ask me.” “Oh, yes, I quite agree.” “Okay, yes,” said Mr. Pursley, his heart sinking horribly .
The cat was sitting as still as a statue, its eyes fixed unblinkingly . It didn’t so much as quiver when a car door slammed on the next street, nor when two owls swooped overhead . Nothing like this man had ever been seen on Privet Drive . He was tall, thin, and very old, judging by the silver of his hair and beard .
Dr. Dumbledore slipped the Put-Outer back inside his cloak and set off down the street toward number four, where he sat next to the cat . He turned to smile at the tabby, but it had gone . Instead he was smiling at a rather severe-looking woman who was wearing square glasses exactly the shape of the markings the cat had had around its eyes .
“Oh yes, I’ve celebrating, all right,” she said impatiently . “You’d think they’d be a bit more careful, but no —even the Muggles have noticed something’s going on. It was on their news.” She jerked her head back at the Dursleys’ dark living-room window . "You can’t blame them,” said Professor McGonagall gently .
Professor McGonagall flinched, but Dumbledore seemed not to notice . "I know you haven’t, said Professor McGoneagall, sounding half exasperated, half admiring . “Only because you’re too — well— noble to use them.” “I’ve never blushed so much since Madam Pomfrey told me she liked my new earmuffs.” It seemed that Professor McGoniall had reached the point she was most
Voldemort turned up in Godric’s Hollow last night . The rumor is that Lily and James Potter are — are...that they’re — dead.” Dumbledore bowed his head . Professor McGonagall’s voice trembled as she went on . “That’s not all. They’re saying he tried to kill the Potter’s son, Harry. But he couldn’t. He couldn’’t kill that little boy? It
“I’ve come to bring Harry to his aunt and uncle. They’re the only family he has left now.” “You don’t mean – you can’t. I’ve been watching them all day. You couldn’t find two people who are less like us. And they’ve got this son — I saw him kicking his mother all the way up the street, screaming for sweets. These people will never understand him!” said Professor McGonagall .
A low rumbling sound had broken the silence around them . It grew steadily louder as they looked up and down the street for some sign of a headlight . If the motorcycle was huge, it was nothing to the man sitting astride it .
Professor McGonagall whispered, patting Hagrid gingerly on the arm as Dumbledore stepped over the low garden wall and walked to the front door . He laid Harry gently on the doorstep, took a letter out of his cloak, tucked it inside Harry’s blankets, and then came back to the other two .
Dr. Dumbledore swung himself onto the motorcycle and kicked the engine into life . Professor McGonagall blew her nose in reply . He turned and walked back down the street .
Harry Potter and the Sorcerer's Stone CHAPTER TWO THE VANISHING GLASS N early ten years had passed since the Dursleys had woken up to find their nephew on the front step . Only the photographs on the mantelpiece really showed how much time had passed . Ten years ago there had been lots of pictures of what looked like a large pink beach ball wearing different-colored bonnets — but Dudley Dursley was no longer a baby .
“Up! Get up! Now!” Harry woke with a start. His aunt rapped on the door again. “Up!” she screeched. “Nearly,” said Harry. “Well, get a move on, I want you to look after the bacon. And don’t you dare let it burn... I want everything perfect on Duddy’s birthday.” It looked as though Dudley had gotten the new computer he wanted .
Harry had a thin face, knobbly knees, black hair, and bright green eyes . He wore round glasses held together with a lot of Scotch tape . The only thing Harry liked about his own appearance was a very thin scar on his forehead that was shaped like a bolt of lightning . Uncle Vernon entered the kitchen as Harry was turning over the bacon .
Harry began wolfing down his bacon as fast as possible in case Dudley turned the table over . Aunt Petunia obviously scented danger, too, because she said quickly, “And we’ll buy you another two presents while we’re out today.” Uncle Vernon chuckled.
Every year on Dudley’s birthday, his parents took him out for the day, to adventure parks, hamburger restaurants, or the movies . Harry hated it there. The whole house smelled of cabbage and Mrs. Figg made him look at photographs of all the cats she’d ever owned . The Dursleys often spoke about Harry like this, as though he wasn’t there .
Dudley started to cry loudly. It had been years since he’d really cried . But he knew that if he screwed up his face and wailed, his mother would give him anything he wanted . “I...don’t...want...him...t-t-to come!” Harry yelled between huge, pretend sobs .
Dudley had cut his hair so short he was almost bald except for his bangs . Next morning, he had gotten up to find his hair exactly as it had been before Aunt Petunia had sheared it off . The Dursleys had received a very angry letter from Harry’s headmistress telling them they had been climbing school buildings .
Uncle Vernon complained to Aunt Petunia as a motorcycle overtook them . The Dursleys bought Dudley and Piers chocolate ice creams at the entrance . It wasn’t bad, either, Harry thought, licking it as they watched a gorilla scratching its head .
Dudley and Piers wanted to see huge, poisonous cobras and thick, man-crushing pythons . Behind the glass, all sorts of lizards and snakes were crawling and slithering over bits of wood and stone . At the moment it didn’t look in the mood .
The snake suddenly opened its beady eyes . Slowly, very slowly, it raised its head until its eyes were on a level with Harry’s . It gave Harry a look that said quite plain: “I get that all the time.” The snake jabbed its tail at a little sign next to the glass .
Harry sat up and gasped; the glass front of the boa constrictor’s tank had vanished . The great snake was uncoiling itself rapidly, slithering out onto the floor . As the snake slid swiftly past him, Harry could have sworn a low .
Harry had lived with the Dursleys almost ten years, ten miserable years, as long as he could remember, ever since he’d been a baby and his parents had died in that car crash . Sometimes, when he strained his memory during long hours in his cupboard, he came up with a strange vision: a blinding flash of green light and a burning pain on his forehead . There were no photographs of them in the house .
Harry Potter and the Sorcerer's Stone CHAPTER THREE LETTERS FROM NO ONE T he escape of the Brazilian boa constrictor earned Harry his longest-ever punishment . By the time he was allowed out of his cupboard again, the summer holidays had started and Dudley had already broken his new video camera, crashed his remote control airplane, and knocked down old Mrs. Figg . Piers, Dennis, Malcolm, and Gordon were all big and stupid, but as Du
Aunt Petunia took Dudley to London to buy his uniform . It turned out she’d broken her leg tripping over one of her cats . She let Harry watch television and gave him a bit of chocolate cake . Uncle Vernon said gruffly that it was the proudest moment of his life .
Dudley and Uncle Vernon came in, both with wrinkled noses because of the smell from Harry’s new uniform . They heard the click of the mail slot and flop of letters on the doormat . Harry picked it up and stared at it, his heart twanging like a giant elastic band .
Uncle Vernon ripped open the bill and the postcard, snorted in disgust, and flipped over the postcard . “Marge’s ill,” he informed Aunt Petunia. “Dad, Harry’s got something!” said Dudley .
Harry and Dudley promptly had a furious but silent fight over who would listen at the keyhole . Uncle Vernon was saying in a quivering voice, “Look at the address — how could they possibly know where he sleeps? You don’t think they’re watching the house?” Harry could see Uncle Vernon’s shiny black shoes pacing up and down the kitchen . “No, we’ll ignore it,” Harry said finally .
The Dursleys’ house had four bedrooms: one for Uncle Vernon and Aunt Petunia . It only took Harry one trip upstairs to move everything he owned from the cupboard to this room . The month-old video camera was lying on top of a small, working tank Dudley had once driven over neighbor’s dog .
Dudley screamed, whacked his father with his Smelting stick, kicked his mother, and thrown his tortoise through the greenhouse roof . Uncle Vernon and Aunt Petunia kept looking at each other darkly . When the mail arrived, Uncle Vernon, who seemed to be nice to Harry, made dudley go and get it .
Uncle Vernon had been lying at the foot of the front door in a sleeping bag . He shouted at Harry for about half an hour and told him to go and make a cup of tea . Uncle Vernon was tearing the letters into pieces before his eyes . On Friday, no less than twelve letters arrived for Harry .
Twenty-four letters to Harry found their way into the house, rolled up and hidden inside each of the two dozen eggs . Uncle Vernon made furious telephone calls to the post office and the dairy trying to find someone to complain to, Aunt Petunia shredded them in her food processor .
Uncle Vernon stopped outside a gloomy-looking hotel on the outskirts of a big city . Dudley and Harry shared a room with twin beds and damp, musty sheets . They ate stale cornflakes and cold tinned tomatoes on toast for breakfast the next day . Uncle Vernon knocked his hand out of the way .
Uncle Vernon drove them into the middle of a forest, got out, looked around, got back in the car, and off they went again . Uncle Vernon had parked at the coast, locked them all inside the car and disappeared . It started to rain. Great drops beat on the roof of the car . Tomorrow, Tuesday, was Harry’s eleventh birthday .
Icy sea spray and rain crept down their necks and a chilly wind whipped their faces . After hours they reached the rock, where Uncle Vernon led the way to the broken-down house . The inside was horrible; it smelled strongly of seaweed .
Harry shivered and turned over, trying to get comfortable, his stomach rumbling with hunger . The lighted dial of Dudley’s watch told Harry he’d be eleven in ten minutes’ time . He lay and watched his birthday tick nearer, wondering if the Dursleys would remember at all, wondering where the letter writer was now . Five minutes to go. Maybe the house in Privet Drive would be so full of letters when they got back that they would be able to steal
The door was hit with such force that it swung clean off its hinges and with a deafening crash landed flat on the floor . The giant squeezed his way into the hut, stooping so that his head just brushed the ceiling . He bent down, picked up the door and fitted it easily back into its frame .
"Anyway — Harry," said the giant, turning his back on the Dursleys . From an inside pocket of his black overcoat he pulled a slightly squashed box . Inside was a large, sticky chocolate cake with Happy Birthday Harry written on it in green icing .
The giant sat back down on the sofa, which sagged under his weight, and began taking all sorts of things out of the pockets of his coat . Soon the hut was full of the sound and smell of sizzling sausage . Uncle Vernon said sharply, “Don’t touch anything he gives you, Dudley.” He passed the sausages to Harry, who was so hungry he had never tasted anything so wonderful, but he still couldn’t take his eyes off the giant.
Hagrid looked as if he was about to explode . Uncle Vernon, who had gone very pale, whispered something that sounded like “Mimblewimble” Hagrid ran his fingers through his hair, fixing Harry with a bewildered stare .
Dear Mr. Potter, We are pleased to inform you that you have been accepted at Hogwarts School of Witchcraft and Wizardry . Please find enclosed a list of all necessary books and equipment . Term begins on September 1 .
Hagrid Hagrid scribbled a note that Harry could read upside down: Dear Professor Dumbledore, Given Harry his letter . With his tongue between his teeth he pulled an owl, a long quill, and a roll of parchment . Then he came back and sat down as though this was as normal as talking on the telephone .
“Knew! Of course we knew! How could you not be, my dratted sister being what she was? Oh, she got a letter just like that and came home every vacation with her pockets full of frog spawn, turning teacups into rats! But for my mother and father, oh no, it was Lily this and Lily that, they were proud of having a witch in the family!” Harry had gone very white .
He sat down, stared into the fire for a few seconds, and then said, “It begins, I suppose, with — with a person called — but it’s incredible yeh don’t know his name, everyone in our world knows —” “Why not?” “Gulpin’ gargoyles, Harry, people are still scared. Blimey, this is difficult. See, there was this wizard who went ...bad. As bad as you could go. Wor
You-Know-Who never tried to get ‘em on his side before...probably knew they were too close ter Dumbledore ter want anythin’ ter do with the Dark Side . Hagrid suddenly pulled out a very dirty, spotted handkerchief and blew his nose with a sound like a foghorn . Wanted ter make a clean job of it, I suppose, or maybe he just liked killin’ by then . But it didn’t work
Harry jumped; he had almost forgotten that the Dursleys were there . He was glaring at Hagrid and his fists were clenched . At that moment, Hagrid leapt from the sofa and drew a battered pink umbrella from inside his coat .
Hagrid looked at Harry with warmth and respect blazing in his eyes . Hagrid said quietly, “I think you must have made a mistake. I don’t think I can be a wizard.” Hagrid chuckled.
Harry looked back at Hagrid, smiling, and saw that Hagrid was positively beaming at him . "If he wants ter go, a great Muggle like you won’t stop him," growled Hagrid . “I AM NOT PAYING FOR SOME CRACKPOT OLD FOOL TO TEACH HIM MAGIC TRICKS!” yelled Uncle Vernon.
Hagrid seized his umbrella and whirled it over his head, “NEVER —” he thundered, “— INSULT — ALBUS — DUMBLEDORE — IN — FRONT — OF — ME!” He brought the umbrella swishing down through the air to point at Dudley . When he turned his back on them, Harry saw a curly pig’s tail poking through a hole in his trousers .
Harry Potter and the Sorcerer's Stone CHAPTER FIVE DIAGON ALLEY H arry woke early the next morning . It had been such a dream, he told himself firmly . He sat up and Hagrid’s coat fell off him .
Hagrid's coat seemed to be made of nothing but pockets . Harry counted out five little bronze coins, and the owl held out his leg so Harry could put the money into a small leather pouch tied to it . Hagrid was turning over the wizard coins and looking at them .
Gringotts is the safest place in the world fer anything yeh want ter keep safe . Harry followed Hagrid out onto the rock . The sky was clear now and the sea gleamed in the sunlight .
Harry sat and thought about this while Hagrid read his newspaper, the Daily Prophet . “There’s a Ministry of Magic?” Harry asked, before he could stop himself .
Hagrid folded up his newspaper, and they clambered up the stone steps onto the street . He kept pointing at perfectly ordinary things like parking meters and saying loudly, “See that, Harry? Things these Muggles dream up, eh?” “Crikey, I’d like a dragon.” “Well, so they say,” said Harry .
Please note that all pupils’ clothes should carry name tags COURSE BOOKS All students should have a copy of each of the following: The Standard Book of Spells (Grade 1) by Miranda Goshawk A History of Magic by Bathilda Bagshot Magical Theory by Adalbert Waffling A Beginners’ Guide to Transfiguration by Emeric Switch One Thousand Magical Herbs and Fungi by Arsenius Jigger Fantastic Beasts . Students may also bring an owl OR a
Hagrid was so huge that he parted the crowd easily . They passed book shops and music stores, hamburger restaurants and cinemas, but nowhere that looked as if it could sell you a magic wand . If Harry hadn’t known that the Dursleys had no sense of humor, Harry couldn’t help trusting him .
The Leaky Cauldron had suddenly gone completely still and silent . “Bless my soul,” whispered the old bartender, “Harry Potter...what an honor.” He hurried out from behind the bar, rushed toward Harry and seized his hand, tears in his eyes .
“D-Defense Against the D-Dark Arts,” muttered Professor Quirrell . “You’ll be g-getting all your equipment, I suppose? I’ve g–got to p-pick up a new b-book on vampires, m-myself.” He looked terrified at the very thought . It took almost ten minutes to get away from them all .
Hagrid grinned at Harry’s amazement. They stepped through the archway . The sun shone brightly on a stack of cauldrons outside the nearest shop . A plump woman outside an Apothecary was shaking her head as they passed .
The goblin was about a head shorter than Harry. He had a swarthy, clever face, a pointed beard and, Harry noticed, very long fingers and feet. They were facing a second pair of doors, silver this time, with words engraved upon them: Enter, stranger, but take heed Of what awaits the sin of greed .
“I’ve also got a letter here from Professor Dumbledore,” said Hagrid . “I will have someone take you down to both vaults. Griphook!” Harry asked. “Can’t tell yeh that.” Harry asked .
Harry’s eyes stung as the cold air rushed past them, but he kept them wide open . “I never know,” Harry called to Hagrid over the noise of the cart, “what’s the difference between a stalagmite and a stalactite?” Hagrid said . The Dursleys couldn’t have known about this or they’d have had it from him faster than blinking .
The air became colder and colder as they hurtled round tight corners . They went rattling over an underground ravine, and Harry leaned over the side to try to see what was down at the dark bottom . Hagrid groaned and pulled him back by the scruff of his neck .
Madam Malkin was a squat, smiling witch dressed all in mauve . Madam malkin stood Harry on a stool next to him slipped a long robe over his head, and began to pin it to the right length . Harry was strongly reminded of Dudley .
Hagrid was grinning at Harry and pointing at two large ice creams to show he couldn’t come in . “He works at Hogwarts.” “Oh, I’ve heard of him. He’s a sort of servant, isn’t he?” said Harry .
Madam Malkin said, “That’s you done, my dear,” and Harry hopped down from the footstool . “Well, I’ll see you at Hogwarts, I suppose,” said the drawling boy . Harry cheered up a bit when he found a bottle of ink that changed color as you wrote .
Harry bought Harry’s school books in a shop called Flourish and Blotts . The shelves were stacked to the ceiling with books as large as paving stones bound in leather . Even Dudley would have been wild to get his hands on some of these .
Hagrid visited the Apothecary, which was fascinating enough to make up for its horrible smell . Harry himself examined silver unicorn horns at twenty-one Galleons each and minuscule, glittery-black beetle eyes . Twenty minutes later, they left Eeylops Owl Emporium, which had been dark and full of rustling and flickering, jewel-bright eyes.
Ollivanders: Makers of Fine Wands since 382 B.C. A single wand lay on a faded purple cushion in the dusty window . It was a tiny place, empty except for a single, spindly chair that Hagrid sat on to wait . The very dust and silence in here seemed to tingle with secret magic .
Mr. Ollivander touched the lightning scar on Harry’s forehead with a long, white finger . “I’m sorry to say I sold the wand that did it,” he said softly . He shook his head and then spotted Hagrid .
Harry measured from shoulder to finger, then wrist to elbow, shoulder to floor, knee to armpit and round his head . Harry realized that the tape measure, which was measuring between his nostrils, was doing this on its own . Mr. Ollivander was flitting around the shelves, taking down boxes .
Harry raised the wand above his head, brought it swishing down through the dusty air . Hagrid whooped and clapped and Mr. Ollivander cried, “Oh, bravo! Yes, indeed, oh, very good. Well, well, well...how curious...how very curious...” He put Harry’s tail feather back into its box and wrapped it in brown paper, still muttering, “But what’s curious...” Harry swallowed.
Harry and Hagrid made their way back down Diagon Alley, back through the wall . Harry didn’t even notice how much people were gawking at them on the Underground . Hagrid bought Harry a hamburger and they sat down on plastic seats to eat them .
Hagrid gave Harry a letter with yer owl, she’ll know where to find him . Harry wanted to watch Hagrid until he was out of sight; he rose in his seat and pressed his nose against the window . True, Dudley was so scared of Harry he wouldn’t stay in the same room .
Uncle Vernon grunted to show he was listening to his aunt and uncle . He was about to go back upstairs when Uncle Vernon actually spoke . “I don’t know,” said Harry, realizing this for the first time .
Harry woke at five o’clock the next morning and was too nervous to go back to sleep . He checked his Hogwarts list yet again to make sure he had everything he needed . Uncle Vernon dumped Harry’s trunk onto a cart and wheeled it into the station for him . “Well, there you are, boy. Platform nine — platform ten,” said Uncle Vernon with an even nastier smile .
Harry asked for the train that left at eleven o’clock, but the guard said there wasn’t one . In the end the guard strode away, muttering about time wasters . He was stranded in the middle of a station with a trunk he could hardly lift, a pocket full of wizard money, and a large owl .
“I’m not Fred, I’m George,” said the boy . “Only joking, I am Fred,” said a plump woman . He pushed his trolley around and stared at the barrier .
Harry pushed his cart off down the platform in search of an empty seat . The boy lifted the lid of a box in his arms, and the people around him shrieked and yelled as something inside poked out a long, hairy leg .
Harry pressed on through the crowd until he found an empty compartment near the end of the train . He put Hedwig inside first and then started to shove and heave his trunk toward the train door . “Yes, please,” Harry panted. “Oy, Fred! C’mere and help!” With the twins’ help, Harry’s trunk was at last tucked away in a corner of the compartment .
“I’m up front, the prefects have got two compartments to themselves,” said one of the twins . “You should have said something, we had no idea.” “Hang on, I think I remember him saying something about it,” said another twin .
Harry saw the boys’ mother waving and their sister, half crying, running to keep up with the train until it gathered too much speed . The door of the compartment slid open and the youngest redheaded boy came in .
Harry shook his head and the boy sat down . He looked quickly out of the window, pretending he hadn’t looked . Harry saw he still had a black mark on his nose .
“I’m the sixth in our family to go to Hogwarts. You could say I’ve got a lot to live up to. Bill and Charlie have already left — Bill was head boy and Charlie was captain of Quidditch . Now Percy’s a prefect. You never get anything new, either, with five brothers . Ron reached inside his jacket and pulled out a fat gray rat, which was asleep .
"You said You-Know-Who’s name!" said Ron, sounding shocked and impressed . "You won’t be. There’s loads of people who come from Muggle families and they learn quick enough," he said .
“You don’t want this, it’s all dry,” said Harry . “Go on, have a pasty,” says Harry, who had never had anything to share before or, indeed, anyone to share it with .
Professor Dumbledore is famous for his defeat of the dark wizard Grindelwald in 1945 . Harry turned the card back over and saw, to his astonishment, that his face had disappeared . “He’s gone!” “Well, you can’t expect him to hang around all day,” said Harry .
Harry had toast, coconut, baked bean, strawberry, curry, grass, coffee, sardine, and was even brave enough to nibble the end off a funny gray one Ron wouldn’t touch . The countryside now flying past the window was becoming wilder . There was a knock on the door of their compartment and the round-faced boy Harry had passed on platform nine and three-quarters came in .
Harry looked at Ron, and was relieved to see by his stunned face that he hadn’t learned all the course books by heart either . “I’m Ron Weasley,” said Harry. “Are you really?” said Hermione Granger. “Am I?” said Harry, feeling dazed .
"Goodness, didn’t you know, I’d have found out everything I could if it was me," said Hermione . "Whatever house I’m in, I hope she’s not in it," said Harry . He threw his wand back into his trunk, looking depressed .
Harry was starting to get a prickle of fear every time You-Know-Who was mentioned . He supposed this was all part of entering the magical world, but it had been a lot more comfortable saying “Voldemort” without worrying . “Oh, you wait, it’s the best game in the world —” Ron asked .
“Oh, this is Crabbe and this is Goyle,” said the pale boy carelessly . “Think my name’s funny, do you? No need to ask who you are. My father told me all the Weasleys have red hair, freckles, and more children than they can afford.” He turned back to Harry .
Scabbers the rat was hanging off his finger, sharp little teeth sunk deep into Goyle’s knuckle, howling, and when they finally flew off and hit the window, all three of them disappeared at once . Perhaps they thought there were more rats lurking among the sweets, or perhaps they’d heard footsteps, because a second later, Hermione Granger had come in . “You’ve met Malfoy before?” Harry explained about their meeting in Diagon
Harry and Ron took off their jackets and pulled on their long black robes . They crammed their pockets with the last of the sweets and joined the crowd thronging the corridor . It was so dark on either side that Harry thought there must be thick trees there .
Harry and Ron were followed into their boat by Neville and Hermione . “Right then — FORWARD!” And the fleet of little boats moved off all at once, gliding across the lake, which was as smooth as glass. Everyone was silent, staring up at the great castle overhead. “Heads down!” yelled Hagrid as the first boats reached the cliff .
Professor McGonagall showed the first years into a small, empty chamber off the hall . They crowded in, standing rather closer together than they would normally have done, peering about nervously . The Sorting Ceremony will take place in a few minutes in front of the rest of the school .
Neville’s cloak was fastened under his left ear and on Ron’s nose . Harry swallowed. “Some sort of test, I think. Fred said it hurts a lot, but I think he was joking.” Harry’s heart gave a horrible jolt. A test? In front of the whole school? But He hadn’t expected something like this the moment they arrived . He looked around anxiously and saw that everyone else looked terrified, too .
Professor McGonagall led the first years up here, so they came to a halt in a line facing the other students, with the teachers behind them . The hundreds of faces staring at them looked like pale lanterns in the flickering candlelight .
It was hard to believe there was a ceiling there at all, and that the Great Hall didn’t simply open on to the heavens . Harry quickly looked down again as Professor McGonagall silently placed a four-legged stool in front of the first years . This hat was patched and frayed and extremely dirty . Aunt Petunia wouldn’t have let it in the house . Maybe they had to try and get a rabbit out of it .
Ron whispered to Harry. “I’ll kill Fred, he was going on about wrestling a troll.” Harry. The hat seemed to be asking rather a lot; Harry didn’t feel brave or quick-witted or any of it at the moment . A pink-faced girl with blonde pigtails stumbled out of line, put on the hat, which fell right down over her eyes .
“Brocklehurst, Mandy” went to Ravenclaw too, but “Brown, Lavender” became the first new Gryffindor . “Finch-Fletchley, Justin!” “HUFFLEPUFF!” Sometimes, Harry noticed, the hat shouted out the house at once, but at others it took a little while to decide .
Malfoy swaggered forward when his name was called and got his wish at once . The hat had barely touched his head when it screamed, “SLYTHERIN!” Harry stepped forward, whispers suddenly broke out like little hissing fires all over the hall . There’s talent, A my goodness, yes — and a nice thirst to prove yourself .
Percy the Prefect got up and shook his hand vigorously . He sat down opposite the ghost in the ruff he'd seen earlier . The ghost patted his arm, giving Harry the horrible feeling he’d just plunged it into a bucket of ice-cold water .
Harry had never seen so many things he liked to eat on one table . The Dursleys had never exactly starved Harry, but he’d never been allowed to ate as much as they liked . He piled his plate with a bit of everything except the peppermints and began eat .
"I haven’t eaten for nearly five hundred years," said the ghost . "I know who you are!" said Seamus Finnigan suddenly . “I would prefer you to call me Sir Nicholas de Mimsy —” Sir Nicholas looked extremely miffed .
As Harry helped himself to a treacle tart, the talk turned to their families . “I’m half-and-half,” said Neville. “Well, my gran brought me up and she’s a witch.” The others laughed .
Professor Quirrell was talking to a teacher with greasy black hair, a hooked nose, and sallow skin . The hook-nosed teacher looked past Quirrell’s turban straight into Harry’s eyes . “What is it?” asked Percy. “N-nothing.” The pain had gone as quickly as it had come .
Madam Hooch will be playing for their house teams in the second week of the term . Harry laughed, but he was one of the few who did . “He’s not serious?” he muttered to Percy .
The Gryffindor first years followed Percy through the chattering crowds . He was too sleepy even to be surprised that the people in the portraits along the corridors whispered and pointed as they passed . A bundle of walking sticks was floating in midair ahead of them, and as they took a step toward them they started throwing themselves at him .
Peeves stuck out his tongue and vanished, dropping the walking sticks on Neville’s head . They heard him zooming away, rattling coats of armor as he passed . At the very end of the corridor hung a portrait of a very fat woman in a pink silk dress .
Harry told the turban he didn’t want to be in Slytherin; it got heavier and heavier . He tried to pull it off but it tightened painfully . There was a burst of green light and Harry woke, sweating and shaking .
There were a hundred and forty-two staircases at Hogwarts: wide, sweeping ones; narrow, rickety ones; some with a vanishing step halfway up that you had to remember to jump . There were doors that wouldn’t open unless you asked politely, or tickled them in exactly the right place, and doors that weren’t really doors at all, but solid walls just pretending . It was always a nasty shock when one of them glided suddenly through 
Mrs. Norris was a scrawny, dust-colored creature with bulging, lamp like eyes just like Filch’s . The students all hated him, and it was the dearest ambition of many to give Mrs. norris a good kick . Three times a week they went out to the greenhouses behind the castle to study Herbology . They had to study the night skies through their telescopes every Wednesday at midnight and learn the names of different stars .
Professor McGonagall gave the class a talking-to the moment they sat down in her first class . She changed her desk into a pig and back again . By the end of the lesson, only Hermione Granger had made any difference . The class everyone had really been looking forward to was Defense Against the Dark Arts .
Harry and Ron finally managed to find their way down to the Great Hall for breakfast without getting lost once . Professor McGonagall was head of Gryffindor House, but it hadn’t stopped her from giving them a huge pile of homework the day before . It had given Harry a bit of a shock on the first morning, when about a hundred owls had suddenly streamed into the great Hall during breakfast, circling the tables until they saw their owners .
Professor Snape didn’t dislike Harry — he hated him . The Potions lesson took place down in one of the dungeons . It was colder here than up in the main castle .
Harry and Ron exchanged looks with raised eyebrows . Hermione Granger looked desperate to start proving that she wasn’t a dunderhead . “I don’t know, sir,” said Harry. “You are here to learn the subtle science and exact art of potionmaking” .
Potter, asphodel and wormwood make sleeping potion so powerful it is known as the Draught of Living Death . A bezoar is a stone taken from the stomach of a goat and it will save you from most poisons . There was rummaging for quills and parchment .
Snape put them all into pairs and set them to mixing up a simple potion . He swept around in his long black cloak, watching them weigh dried nettles and crush snake fangs . Neville had somehow managed to melt Seamus’s cauldron into a twisted blob . The whole class was standing on their stools while Neville moaned in pain .
Hagrid's voice rang out, saying, “Back, Fang — back.” He let them in, struggling to keep a hold on the collar of an enormous black boarhound . “This is Ron,” Harry told Hagrid, who was pouring boiling water into a large teapot and putting rock cakes onto a plate .
Harry and Ron were delighted to hear Hagrid call Filch “that old git” Harry told Hagrid not to worry about it, that Snape liked hardly any of the students . “Why should he?” Hagrid asked Ron. “How’s yer brother Charlie?” It was a cutting from the Daily Prophet: GRINGOTTS BREAK-IN LATEST Investigations continue into the break-in at Gringotts on 31 July .
Hagrid had emptied vault seven hundred and thirteen, if you could call it emptying . Had Hagrid collected that grubby little package just in time? Did Hagrid know something about Snape that didn’t want to tell Harry? HP 1 - Harry Potter and the Sorcerer's Stone CHAPTER NINE THE MIDNIGHT DUEL H arry had never believed he would meet a boy he hated more than Dudley .
Ron complained loudly about first years never getting on the house Quidditch teams . He wasn’t the only one, though: the way Seamus Finnigan told it, he’d spent most of his childhood zooming around the countryside on his broomstick . Harry had caught Ron prodding Dean’s poster of West Ham soccer team, trying to make the players move .
Neville was trying to remember what he’d forgotten when Draco Malfoy snatched the Remembrall out of his hand . Harry, Ron, and other Gryffindors hurried down the front steps onto the grounds for their first flying lesson . It was a clear, breezy day, and the grass rippled under their feet as they marched down the sloping lawns toward a smooth, flat lawn .
Harry had heard Fred and George Weasley complain about the school brooms . They said that some of them started to vibrate if you flew too high, or always flew slightly to the left . Madam Hooch looked down at the front, “and say ‘Up!’” Everyone shouted .
Neville lay facedown on the grass in a heap . Madam Hooch was bending over Neville, her face as white as his . “Come on, boy — it’s all right, up you get,” Harry heard .
Harry yelled, but Malfoy had leapt onto his broomstick and taken off . He had not been lying, he could fly well . “No!” shouted Hermione Granger. “Madam Hooch told us not to move — you’ll get us all into trouble.” Harry ignored her .
Harry saw, as though in slow motion, the ball rise up in the air and then start to fall . He leaned forward and pointed his broom handle down . Next second he was gathering speed in a steep dive, racing the ball .
Professor McGonagall opened the door and poked her head inside . Wood turned out to be a person, a burly fifth-year boy who came out of Flitwick’s class looking confused . Peeves threw the chalk into a bin, which clanged loudly, and he swooped out cursing .
Professor McGonagall looked as though all his dreams had come true at once . “Ever seen a game of Quidditch, Potter?” he asked excitedly. “Light —speedy — we’ll have to get him a decent broom, Professor — a Nimbus Two Thousand or a Cleansweep Seven, I’d say.” “I want to hear you’re training hard, Potter, or I may change my mind about punishing you.” Then
Fred and George Weasley came into the hall, spotted Harry and hurried over . “Only don’t tell anyone, Wood wants to keep it a secret,” said George . "We’re going to win that Quidditch cup for sure this year,” said Fred .
Malfoy looked at Crabbe and Goyle, sizing them up . “What is a wizard’s duel?” said Harry. “Well, a second’s there to take over if you die,” said Harry .
Harry felt he was pushing his luck, breaking another school rule today . Malfoy’s sneering face kept looming up out of the darkness . It was Hermione Granger, wearing a pink bathrobe and a frown .
The Fat Lady had gone on a nighttime visit and Hermione was locked out of Gryffindor tower . She had turned to the portrait of the Fat Lady to get back inside and found herself facing an empty painting . “You’ve got some nerve —” said Ron loudly .
Ron looked at his watch and then glared furiously at Hermione and Neville . They flitted along corridors striped with bars of moonlight from the high windows . Harry took out his wand in case Malfoy leapt in and started at once .
Neville’s robes had barely whipped round the corner when they heard Filch enter the trophy room . Neville suddenly let out a frightened squeak and broke into a run he tripped, grabbed Ron around the waist, and the pair of them toppled right into an armor suit . The clanging and crashing were enough to wake the whole castle .
“Let’s go.” It wasn’t going to be that simple. It was Peeves. He caught sight of them and gave a squeal of delight . “Should tell Filch, I should,” said Peevs in a saintly voice .
Harry groped for the doorknob — between Filch and death, he took Filch . “He thinks this door is locked,” Neville whispered .
Harry slammed the door shut, and they ran, they almost flew, back down the corridor . They didn’t stop running until they reached the portrait of the Fat Lady on the seventh floor . It was a while before any of them said anything . Neville, indeed, looked as if he’d never speak again.
Harry Potter and the Sorcerer's Stone CHAPTER TEN HALLOWEEN M alfoy couldn't believe his eyes when he saw that Harry and Ron were still at Hogwarts the next day . By the next morning Harry filled Ron in about the package that seemed to have been moved from Gringotts . All Neville nor Hermione showed the slightest interest in what lay underneath the dog and the trapdoor .
The owls soared down and dropped a letter on top of the parcel . Harry ripped open the letter first, which was lucky, because it said: DO NOT OPEN THE PARCEL AT THE TABLE . It contains your new Nimbus Two Thousand, but I don’t want everybody knowing you’ve got a broomstick .
Professor Flitwick appeared at Malfoy’s elbow . “No, yes, that’s right,” said Professor McGonagall, beaming at Harry .
Harry left the castle and set off in the dusk toward Quidditch field . Hundreds of seats were raised in stands around the field so that the spectators were high enough to see what was going on . At either end of the field were three golden poles with hoops on the end .
“The Chasers throw the Quaffle to each other and try and get it through one of the hoops to score,” Harry recited . “What’s basketball?” said Wood curiously. “Never mind,” said Harry quickly .
“See?” Wood panted, forcing the Bludger back into the crate and strapping it down safely . “Three Chasers try and score with the Quaffle; the Keeper guards the goal posts; the Beaters keep the Blusgers away from their team,” Harry reeled off . The Weasley twins are ours .
It’s very hard to catch because it’s so fast and difficult to see . You’ve got to weave in and out of the Chasers, Beaters, Bludgers, and Quaffle to get it before the other team’s Seeker, because whichever Seeker catches the Snitch wins his team an extra hundred and fifty points . That’s why Seekers get fouled so much .
Harry and Seamus swished and flicked, but the feather they were supposed to be sending skyward just lay on the desktop . Seamus got so impatient that he prodded it with his wand and set fire to it . The castle felt more like home than Privet Drive ever had . Professor Flitwick put the class into pairs to practice .
Hermione rolled up the sleeves of her gown, flicked her wand, and said, “Wingardium Leviosa!” Their feather rose off the desk and hovered about four feet above their heads . It’s no wonder no one can stand her,” he said to Harry as they pushed their way into the crowded corridor, “she’s a nightmare, honestly” .
Harry sank to the floor in a dead faint . It took several purple firecrackers exploding from the end of Professor Dumbledore’s wand to bring silence . “Don’t ask me, they’re supposed to be really stupid,” said Ron .
“What’s he doing?” Harry whispered, but Ron held up his hand . “Can you smell something?” Harry sniffed and a foul stench reached his nostrils . They shrank into the shadows and watched as it emerged into a patch of moonlight .
Hermione Granger was shrinking against the wall opposite, looking as if she was about to faint . The troll was advancing on her, knocking the sinks off the walls as it went . “Oy, pea-brain!” yelled Ron from the other side of the chamber, and he threw a metal pipe at it .
The troll twisted and flailed its club, with Harry clinging on for dear life . Ron pulled out his own wand and dropped, with a sickening crack, onto its owner’s head . It was swayed on the spot and then fell flat on its face . Harry got to his feet. He was shaking and out of breath .
Professor McGonagall was looking at Ron and Harry . Harry had never seen her look so angry. Her lips were white . “Why aren’t you in your dormitory?” Snape gave Harry a swift, piercing look .
Hermione was the last person to do anything against the rules, and here she was, pretending she had, to get them out of trouble . It was as if Snape had started handing out sweets . You each win Gryffindor five points .
Harry Potter and the Sorcerer's Stone CHAPTER ELEVEN QUIDDITCH A s they entered November, the weather turned very cold . The mountains around the school became icy gray and the lake like chilled steel . Every morning the ground was covered in frost .
Harry learned that there were seven hundred ways of committing a Quidditch foul and that all of them had happened during a World Cup match in 1473 . Harry, Ron, and Hermione had conjured them up a bright blue fire that could be carried around in a jam jar . They were standing with their backs to it, getting warm, when Snape crossed the yard . Snape noticed at once that Snape was limping .
Harry had an idea that Snape wouldn’t refuse if there were other teachers listening . He pushed the door ajar and peered inside – and a horrible scene met his eyes . Snape’s face was twisted with fury as he dropped his robes quickly to hide his leg .
Harry went to bed with his head buzzing with the same question . Neville was snoring loudly, but Harry couldn’t sleep . The next morning dawned very bright and cold .
Ron and Hermione joined Neville, Seamus, and Dean the West Ham fan up in the top row . They had painted a large banner on one of the sheets Scabbers had ruined . Harry and the rest of the team were changing into their scarlet Quidditch robes .
Fifteen brooms rose up, high, high into the air. They were off. The Weasley twins’ friend Lee Jordan was doing the commentary for the match, closely watched by Professor McGonagall . The Slytherins have taken the Quaffle .
Ron and Hermione squeezed together to give Hagrid enough space to join them . Hagrid raised binoculars and peering skyward at the speck that was Harry . He was squinting about for some sign of the Snitch .
A murmur ran through the crowd as Adrian Pucey dropped the Quaffle . Harry dived downward after the streak of gold . Slytherin Seeker Terence Higgs had seen it, too .
Flint nearly kills Gryffindor Seeker, which could happen to anyone, I’m sure . It was as Harry dodged another Bludger, which went spinning dangerously past his head, that it happened . He gripped the broom tightly with both his hands and knees . Nimbus Two Thousands did not suddenly decide to buck their riders off .
Harry’s broom had given a wild jerk and Harry swung off it . He was now dangling from it, holding on with only one hand . At these words, Hermione seized Hagrid’s binoculars .
Hermione fought her way across to the stand where Snape stood . It took perhaps thirty seconds for Snape to realize that he was on fire . A sudden yelp told her she had done her job . Scooping the fire off him into a little jar in her pocket, she scrambled back along the row .
“Why would Snape do somethin’ like that?” Harry, Ron, and Hermione looked at one another . “I found out something about him,” Hagrid said. “He tried to get past that three-headed dog on Halloween. It bit him. We think he was trying to steal whatever it’s guarding.” Hagrid dropped the teapot .
Harry Potter and the Sorcerer's Stone CHAPTER TWELVE THE MIRROR OF ERISED C hristmas was coming . One morning in mid-December, Hogwarts woke to find itself covered in several feet of snow . The lake froze solid and the Weasley twins were punished for bewitching several snowballs so they followed Quirrell around, bouncing off his turban .
Malfoy, jealous and angry, had gone back to taunting Harry about having no proper family . It was true that Harry wasn’t going back to Privet Drive for Christmas . Ron and his brothers were staying because Mr. and Mrs. Weasley were going to Romania to visit Charlie .
“I hate them both,” said Harry, “Malfoy and Snape.” “Come on, cheer up, it’s nearly Christmas,” said Hagrid . “Ah, Hagrid, the last tree — put it in the far corner, would you?” Hagrid asked .
“I’m sayin’ nothin’, said Hagrid flatly . They had indeed been searching books for Flamel’s name ever since Snape had let it slip . The trouble was, it was very hard to know where to begin, not knowing what Flamel might have done to get himself into a book .
Ron and Hermione had been searching for Flamel for a while . They had been looking for two weeks, after A, but as they only had odd moments between lessons it wasn’t surprising they’d found anything . The librarian had been wondering if Flamel wasn't somewhere in there . "You’d better get out, then. Go on — out!” Harry said .
Ron and Harry were having too good a time to think much about Flamel . They ate anything they could spear on a toasting fork and plotting ways of getting Malfoy expelled . Ron also started teaching Harry wizard chess .
To Harry, from Hagrid, picked up the top parcel . It was wrapped in thick brown paper and scrawled across it was To Harry . A second, very small parcel contained a note . Ron was fascinated by the fifty pence .
Harry picked the shining, silvery cloth off the floor . It was strange to the touch, like water woven into material . “I’m sure it is — try it on.” Harry threw the cloak around his shoulders .
Fred and George were wearing blue sweaters, one with a large yellow F on it, the other a G. “I hate maroon,” Ron moaned halfheartedly as he pulled it over his head . “You haven’t got a letter on yours,” George observed .
Harry pulled a wizard cracker with Fred and it went off with a blast like a cannon . From the inside exploded a rear admiral’s hat and several live, white mice . Harry watched Hagrid getting redder and redder in the face as he called for more wine .
Harry and the Weasleys spent a happy afternoon having a furious snowball fight on the grounds . After a meal of turkey sandwiches, crumpets, trifle, and Christmas cake, everyone felt too full and sleepy to do much before bed except sit and watch Percy chase Fred and George all over Gryffindor tower because they’d stolen his prefect badge . Not until he climbed into bed was he free to think about it: the invisibility cloak and
Harry lit a lamp to see his way along the rows of books . The Restricted Section was right at the back of the library . They didn’t tell him much. Some had no title at all .
Harry snapped it shut, but the shriek went on and on, one high, unbroken, earsplitting note . He stumbled backward and knocked over his lamp, which went out at once . Harry slipped under Filch’s outstretched arm and streaked off up the corridor .
He squeezed through it, holding his breath, trying not to move it, and managed to get inside the room without their noticing anything . It was a few seconds before he noticed anything about the room he had hidden in . The dark shapes of desks and chairs were piled against the walls, and there was an upturned wastepaper basket – but propped against the wall facing him was something that didn’t look as if it belonged there .
He reached out a hand and felt the air behind him . If she was really there, he’d touch her, but he felt only air – she and the others existed only in the mirror . The tall, thin, black-haired man standing next to her put his arm around her . He wore glasses, and his hair was very untidy .
“You can come tonight, I’m going back, I want to show you the mirror,” Ron said eagerly . “I’d like to see your mom and dad, all the Weasleys, you’ll be able to show me your other brothers and everyone.” “I can see them any old time.” “Look in it properly, go on, stand where I am.”
Ron and Harry stood quite still, both thinking the same thing — did the cloak work on cats? After what seemed an age, she turned and left . The snow still hadn’t melted the next morning . “Why don’t we go down and visit Hagrid?” Ron said .
Harry sank down to sit on the floor in front of the mirror . There was nothing to stop him from staying here all night with his family . "I — I didn’t see you, sir," said Albus Dumbledore .
"I don’t need a cloak to become invisible," said Harry . The happiest man on earth would be able to use the Mirror of Erised like a normal mirror, that is, he would look into it and see himself exactly as he is . "It shows us what we want...whatever we want," said Dumbledore quietly .
Harry Potter and the Sorcerer's Stone CHAPTER THIRTEEN NICHOLAS FLAMEL D umbledore had convinced Harry not to go looking for the Mirror of Erised again . Harry wished he could forget what he’d seen in the mirror as easily, but he couldn’t . Over and over again he dreamed about his parents disappearing in a flash of green light, while a high voice cackled with laughter .
The Weasleys complained that Wood was becoming a fanatic, but Harry was on Wood’s side . If they won their next match, they would overtake Slytherin in the house championship for the first time in seven years . Wood had fewer nightmares when he was tired out after training . “Will you stop messing around!” he said .
“Don’t talk to me for a moment,” said Ron when Harry sat next to him, “I need to concen—” He caught sight of Harry’s face . “Say you’re ill,” said Harry. “Pretend to break your leg,” said Hermione at once. “There isn’t a reserve Seeker. If I back out, Gryffindor can’t play at all.”
Harry felt in the pocket of his robes and pulled out a Chocolate Frog . He gave it to Neville, who looked as though he might cry . “You’re worth twelve of Malfoy,” Harry said .
The ancient study of alchemy is concerned with making the Sorcerer’s Stone . The stone will transform any metal into pure gold . It also produces the Elixir of Life, which will make the drinker immortal .
Harry and Ron were still discussing what they’d do with a Sorcerer’s Stone if they had one . It wasn’t until Ron said he’d buy his own Quidditch team that Harry remembered about Snape and the coming match . The idea of overtaking Slytherin in the house championship was wonderful, no one had done it for seven years .
Ron and Hermione had found a place in the stands next to Neville . They’d gotten the idea from Malfoy using it on Neville, and were ready to use it on Snape if he showed any sign of wanting to hurt Harry . The whole school’s out there!” said Fred Weasley, peering out of the door .
Harry had suddenly gone into a spectacular dive, which drew gasps and cheers from the crowd . Hermione stood up, her crossed fingers in her mouth, as Harry streaked toward the ground like a bullet . “You’re in luck, Weasley, Potter’s obviously spotted some money on the ground!” said Malfoy .
Hermione screamed, leaping onto her seat to watch as Harry sped at Snape . She didn’t even notice Malfoy and Ron rolling around under her seat . Snape turned on his broomstick just in time to see something scarlet shoot past him . The stands erupted; it had to be a record, no one could remember the Snitch being caught so quickly .
Harry jumped back on his Nimbus Two Thousand and took off . Gliding silently over the castle he saw Snape enter the forest . The trees were so thick he couldn’t see where Snape had gone . He landed noiselessly in a towering beech tree .
“You don’t want me as your enemy, Quirrell,” said Snape . “We’ll have another little chat soon, when you’ve had time to think things over and decided where your loyalties lie.” He threw his cloak over his head and strode out of the clearing .
Harry Potter and the Sorcerer's Stone CHAPTER FOURTEEN NORBERT THE NORWEGIAN RIDGEBACK Q uirrell must have been braver than they’d thought . Every time they passed the third-floor corridor, Harry, Ron, and Hermione would press their ears to check that Fluffy was still growling inside . She had started drawing up study schedules and color coding all her notes .
Harry and Ron spent most of their free time in the library with her . It was the first really fine day they’d had in months . The sky was a clear, forget-me-not blue . Hagrid shuffled into view, hiding something behind his back .
“Oh, we found out who he is ages ago,” said Ron impressively . “Don’ go shoutin’ about it, what’s the matter with yeh?” said Harry .
Dragon breeding was outlawed by the Warlocks’ Convention of 1709 . It’s hard to stop Muggles from noticing us if we’re keeping dragons in the back garden . You should see the burns Charlie’s got off wild ones in Romania . “Of course there are,” said Harry .
“Oh, come on, Hagrid, you might not want to tell us, but you do know, you know everything that goes on round here,” said Hermione in a warm, flattering voice . “Well, I don’ s’pose it could hurt ter tell yeh that...let’s see...he borrowed Fluffy from me...then some o’ the teachers did enchantments...Professor Quirrell — an’ Dumbledore himself did somethin
“You’re the only one who knows how to get past Fluffy,” said Hagrid . “Well, can we have a window open? I’m boiling.” “Can’t, Harry, sorry,” said Harry . In the very heart of the fire, underneath the kettle was a huge, black egg .
Ron and Hermione argued all the way to Herbology . Harry didn’t like the look on Malfoy’s face at all . The three of them dropped their trowels at once and hurried through the grounds to the edge of the forest .
The baby dragon flopped onto the table and watched with bated breath . Harry thought it looked like a crumpled, black umbrella . It had a long snout with wide nostrils, the stubs of horns and bulging orange eyes .
Hagrid looked at the dragon with misty eyes . It had grown three times in length in just a week . He had been feeding Norbert, who was now eating dead rats by the crate .
“I’m not going to be able to hold a quill for a week. I tell you, that dragon’s the most horrible animal I’ve ever met, but the way Hagrid goes on about it, you’d think it was a fluffy little bunny rabbit . When it bit me he told me off for frightening it. And when I left, he was singing it a lullaby.” The three of them put their heads together to read the note .
Harry and Hermione rushed up to the hospital wing at the end of the day to find Ron in a terrible state in bed . “I’ve told her it was a dog, but I don’t think she believes me — I shouldn’t have hit him at the Quidditch match, that’s why he’s doing this.” “It’ll all be over at midnight on Saturday,” said Herman, but this didn’t soothe Ron at all .
Harry and Hermione walked back to the castle feeling sorry for Hagrid when the time came for him to say good-bye to Norbert if they hadn’t been so worried about what they had to do . They had to wait for Peeves to get out of their way in the entrance hall, where he’d been playing tennis against the wall .
Hagrid sobbed as Harry and Hermione covered the crate with the invisibility cloak and stepped underneath it themselves . Midnight ticked nearer as they heaved Norbert up the marble staircase in the entrance hall and along the dark corridors . Then a sudden movement ahead of them made them almost drop the .
Harry and Hermione shook hands with the others and thanked them very much . At last, Norbert was going...going...gone. They slipped back down the spiral staircase, their hearts as light as their hands . They’d left the invisibility cloak on top of the tower .
Harry shook his head violently to shut Neville up . It was the first time Hermione had ever failed to answer a teacher’s question . She was staring at her slippers, as still as a statue .
“Fifty?” Harry gasped — they would lose the lead, the lead he’d won in the last Quidditch match . A hundred and fifty points lost. That put Gryffindor in last place . Harry felt as though the bottom had dropped out of his stomach .
Harry swore to himself not to meddle in things that weren’t his business from now on . He went to Wood and offered to resign from Quidditch team . The rest of the team wouldn’t speak to Harry during practice . Hermione and Neville were suffering, too .
Harry strode out of sight; Harry didn’t think Quirrell had even noticed him . He waited until Quirrell’s footsteps had disappeared, then peered into the classroom . Harry was halfway toward it before he remembered what he’d promised himself about not meddling .
Professor McGonagall Harry had forgotten they still had detentions to do in the furor over the points they’d lost . At eleven o’clock that night, they said good-bye to Ron in the common room and went down to the entrance hall with Neville . "Follow me," said Filch, lighting a lamp and leading them outside .
Harry wondered what their punishment was going to be . It must be something really horrible, or Filch wouldn’t be sounding so delighted . Ahead, Harry could see the lighted windows of Hagrid’s hut .
“That’s your problem, isn’t it?” said Filch, his voice cracking with glee . “Should’ve thought of them werewolves before you got in trouble, shouldn’t you?” Filch said .
Malfoy looked at Hagrid furiously, but dropped his gaze . “Now, listen carefully, ‘cause it’s dangerous what we’re gonna do tonight, an’ I don’ want no one takin’ risks. Follow me over here a moment.” He led them to the very edge of the forest .
Harry, Hermione, and Hagrid took the left path while Malfoy, Neville, and Fang took the right . Every now and then a ray of moonlight through the branches above lit a spot of silver-blue blood on the fallen leaves .
Hagrid hoisted Harry and Hermione off the path behind a towering oak . He pulled out an arrow and fitted it into his crossbow, raising it, ready to fire . The three of them listened. “There’s summat bad loose in this forest,” said Ronan .
“Erm —” “A bit. Well, that’s something.” Ronan stared unblinkingly upward, then sighed again . “Always the innocent are the first victims,” he said .
Harry and Hermione followed him out of the clearing, staring over their shoulders at Ronan and Bane until the trees blocked their view . “Never,” said Hagrid irritably, “try an’ get a straight answer out of a centaur. Ruddy stargazers. Not interested in anythin’ closer’n the moon.” “Are there many of them in here? They’re deep, mind, centaurs...they know things...jus’ don’ let on much
Malfoy, Neville, and Fang were with him . Hagrid had sneaked up behind Neville and grabbed him as a joke . Neville had panicked and sent up the sparks .
A centaur was standing over him, not Ronan or Bane; this one looked younger . He looked carefully at Harry, his eyes lingering on the scar that stood out, livid, on Harry’s forehead . “You are the Potter boy,” he said .
Ronan and Bane came bursting through the trees, their flanks heaving and sweaty . “I’m sure Firenze thought he was acting for the best, “ he said in his gloomy voice. “Do you not see that unicorn?” Bane kicked his back legs in anger .
Firenze slowed to a walk, warned Harry to keep his head bowed in case of low-hanging branches . They made their way through the trees in silence for so long that Harry thought firenze didn’t want to talk to him anymore . “We’ve only used the horn and tail hair in Potions.” “That is because it is a monstrous thing, to slay a unicorn,” said Harry .
Harry croaked, “that was Vol-” “Harry! Harry, are you all right?” Hermione was running toward them down the path . “This is where I leave you,” Firenze murmured as Hagrid hurried off to examine the unicorn. “You are safe now.” Harry slid off his back .
Harry Potter and the Sorcerer's Stone CHAPTER SIXTEEN THROUGH THE TRAPDOOR I n years to come, Harry would never quite remember how he had managed to get through his exams when he half expected Voldemort to come bursting through the door at any moment . But the days crept by, and there could be no doubt that Fluffy was still alive and well behind the locked door .
Professor Flitwick called them one by one into his class to see if they could make a pineapple tapdance across a desk . Points were given for how pretty the snuffbox was, but taken away if it had whiskers . Harry did the best he could, trying to ignore the stabbing pains in his forehead, which had been bothering him ever since his trip into the forest .
"I needn’t have learned about the 1637 Werewolf Code of Conduct or the uprising of Elfric the Eager," said Hermione . The Weasley twins and Lee Jordan were tickling the tentacles of a giant squid, basking in the warm shallows . "Go to Madam Pomfrey, it’s a warning...it means danger’s coming...." Ron couldn’t get worked up, it was too hot .
Hagrid would never tell anyone how to get past Fluffy...never...but.... Harry suddenly jumped to his feet . “Why?” panted Hermione, hurrying to keep up .
Harry sank down next to the bowl of peas . “What did you talk to him about, Hagrid? Did you mention Hogwarts at all?” Hagrid replied .
“We’ve got to go to Dumbledore,” said Harry frantically . “Something you have to say is more important than the Ministry of Magic, Potter?” Harry said .
“Professor, I think — I know — that Sn— that someone’s going to try and steal the Stone.” She eyed him with a mixture of shock and suspicion . “I don’t know how you found out about the Stone, but rest assured, no one can possibly steal it,” she said .
Harry and Ron went back to the common room, Harry had just said, “At least Hermione’s on Snape’s tail” when the portrait of the Fat Lady swung open . “Snape came out and asked me what I was doing, so I said I was waiting for Flitwick, and I’ve only just got away, I don’t know where Snape went.”
“You’re mad!” said Ron. “You can’t!” said Hermione . “If Snape gets hold of the Stone, Voldemort’s coming back! There won’t be any Hogwarts to get expelled from! He’ll flatten it, or turn it into a school for the Dark Arts!
Harry and Ron didn’t talk much about what they were about to do . Slowly, the room emptied as people drifted off to bed . Neville appeared from behind an armchair, clutching Trevor the toad .
“You can’t go out,” said Neville, “you’ll be caught again. Gryffindor will be in even more trouble.” “You don’t understand,” said Harry, “this is important.” “I won’t let you do it,” Neville said, hurrying to stand in front of the portrait hole. “Don’t you call me an idiot!” Neville dropped Trevor the toad, who leapt out of sight .
Ron whispered in Harry’s ear, but Harry shook his head . They didn’t meet anyone else until they reached the staircase up to the third floor . Peeves was bobbing halfway up, loosening the carpet so that people would trip .
“I will, sir, I most certainly will,” said Peeves, rising up in the air again . “Well, there you are,” Harry said quietly, “Snape’s already got past Fluffy.” Seeing the open door somehow seemed to impress upon all three of them what was facing them. “If you want to go back, I won’t blame you,” said Ron .
Ron warned Harry as they slipped out of the cloak and crept toward the trapdoor . “Want to go first, Hermione?” “No, I don’t!” “All right.” Ron gritted his teeth and stepped carefully over the dog’s legs . Harry, who was still playing the flute, waved at Ron to get his attention .
“Lucky this plant thing’s here, really,” said Ron. “Look at you both!” Hermione leapt up and struggled toward a damp wall . The moment she had landed, the plant had started to twist snakelike tendrils around her ankles .
Hermione whipped out her wand, waved it, muttered something, and sent a jet of the same bluebell flames she had used on Snape at the plant . In a matter of seconds, the two boys felt it loosening its grip as it cringed away from the light and warmth . The passageway sloped downward, and Harry was reminded of Gringotts .
Ron looked around the chamber while the other two squinted up at the flock of keys . They grabbed and snatched, but the bewitched keys darted and dived so quickly it was almost impossible to catch one . Not for nothing was Harry the youngest Seeker in a century .
Ron went speeding in direction that Harry was pointing, crashed into the ceiling, and nearly fell off his broom . “Ron, you come at it from above — Hermione, stay below and stop it from going down and I’ll try and catch it. Right, NOW!” Harry shouted, not taking his eyes off the key with the damaged wing.
“I think,” said Ron, “we’re going to have to be chessmen.” He walked up to a black knight and put his hand out to touch the knight’s horse . At once, the stone sprang to life. The horse pawed the ground and the knight turned his helmeted head to look down at Ron. “Do we — er — have to join you to get across?” The black knight nodded. “This needs thinking about...” He said . “
Ron darted around the board, taking almost as many white pieces as they had lost black ones . The white queen turned her blank face toward him . “That’s chess!” snapped Ron. “You’ve got to make some sacrifices! I take one step forward and she’ll take me — that leaves you free to checkmate the king, Harry!” He stepped forward .
A disgusting smell filled their nostrils, making both pull their robes up over their noses . There was nothing very frightening in here, just a table with seven differently shaped bottles standing on it in a line . It wasn’t ordinary fire either; it was purple . At the same instant, black flames shot up in the doorway leading onward . Three of us are killers, waiting bidden in line.
You will always find some on nettle wine’s left side; Third, as you see clearly, neither is your friend . Fourth, the second left and the second on the right Are twins once you taste them, though different at first sight . “But so will we, won’t we?” “Of course not,” said Hermione .
“You drink that,” said Harry. “No, listen, get back and get Ron. Grab brooms from the flying-key room, they’ll get you out of the trapdoor and past Fluffy.” “Well — I was lucky once, wasn’t I?” said Harry, pointing at his scar . “Harry — you’re a great wizard, you know.” “I’m not as good as you,” said Hermione .
Harry Potter and the Sorcerer's Stone CHAPTER SEVENTEEN THE MAN WITH TWO FACES I t was Quirrell. “You!” gasped Harry. “I thought — Snape —” “Severus?” Quirrell laughed, and it wasn’t his usual quivering treble, either, but cold and sharp . “No, no, no. I tried to kill you. Your friend Miss Granger accidentally knocked me over as she rushed to set fire to Snap
Quirrell snapped his fingers. Ropes sprang out of thin air and wrapped themselves tightly around Harry . Snape, who already suspected me, went straight to the third floor to head me off . It was only then that Harry realized what was standing behind Quirrell .
“I see the Stone...I’m presenting it to my master...but where is it?” Harry struggled against the ropes binding him . “But Snape always seemed to hate me so much.” “Oh, he does,” said Quirrell casually, “heavens, yes. He was at Hogwarts with your father, didn’t you know? They loathe each other. But he never wanted you dead.” For the first time, a spasm of fear flit
Harry’s mind was racing. What I want more than anything else in the world at the moment, he thought, is to find the Stone before Quirrell does . Harry tried to edge to the left, to get in front of the glass without Quirrell noticing, but the ropes around his ankles were too tight: He tripped and fell over . Quirrell ignored him. He was still talking to himself .
He saw his reflection, pale and scared-looking at first . It winked and put the Stone back in its pocket . Harry screwed up his courage. “I — I’ve won the house cup for Gryffindor.” Quirrell cursed again. “Get out of the way,” Quirrell said .
Harry tried to take a step backward but his legs wouldn’t move . The feeling suddenly surged back into Harry’s legs . Harry stumbled backward. “Don’t be a fool,” snarled the face . “Better save your own life and join me...or you’ll meet the same end as your parents...” “LIAR!” Harry shouted suddenly .
Harry’s scar was almost blinding him with pain, yet he could see Quirrell howling in agony . Quirrell raised his hand to perform a deadly curse, but Harry reached up and grabbed Quirrell’s face — “AAAARGH!” Quirrell rolled off him, his face blistering, too, and then Harry knew: Quirrell couldn’t touch his bare skin, not without suffering terrible pain . Harry jumped to his feet, caught Quirrell by the arm, and hung
Harry swallowed and looked around him . He realized he must be in the hospital wing . Madam Pomfrey felt it might not be very hygienic and confiscated it .
“You nearly were, I couldn’t have kept him off the Stone much longer,” said Harry blankly . “You did do the thing properly, didn’t you? Well, Nicolas and I have had a little chat, and agreed it’s all for the best.” “But that means he and his wife will die, won’t they?” Dumbledore smiled at the look of amazement on Harry’s face .
Harry left Quirrell to die; he shows just as little mercy to his followers as his enemies . Harry nodded, but stopped quickly, because it made his head hurt . “I shall answer your questions unless I have a very good reason not to, in which case I beg you’ll forgive me. I shall not, of course, lie.” Harry sighed very deeply this time .
Professor Snape couldn’t bear being in your father’s debt...I do believe he worked so hard to protect you this year because he felt that would make him and your father even . Harry tried to understand this but it made his head pound, so he stopped.
“I’m glad you asked me that. It was one of my more brilliant ideas, and between you and me, that’s saying something.” You see, only one who wanted to find the Stone — find it, but not use it— would be able to get it, otherwise they’d just see themselves making gold or drinking Elixir of Life. My brain surprises even me sometimes...Now, enough questions. I suggest you make a start on these sweets.
Harry told them everything: Quirrell; the mirror; the Stone; and Voldemort . Ron and Hermione were a very good audience; they gasped in all the right places . “I always said he was off his rocker,” said Ron .
"You’ve had nearly fifteen minutes, now OUT," Madam Pomfrey said firmly . Hagrid sidled through the door as he spoke, and burst into tears . “I should be chucked out an’ made ter live as a Muggle!” said Harry .
Hagrid wiped his nose on the back of his hand and said, “That reminds me. I’ve got yeh a present.” “Nah. Dumbledore gave me the day off yesterday ter fix it. ‘course, he shoulda sacked me instead — anyway, got Yeh this.” It seemed to be a handsome, leather-covered book . Harry made his way down to the end-of-year feast alone that night .
A storm of cheering and stamping broke out from the Slytherin table . Harry could see Draco Malfoy banging his goblet on the table. It was a sickening sight . "Ahem," said Dumbledore .
Gryffindors up and down the table were beside themselves — they were a hundred points up . The din was deafening. Those who could add up while yelling themselves hoarse . "There are all kinds of courage," said Dumbledore, smiling .
It was the best evening of Harry’s life, better than winning at Quidditch, or knocking out mountain trolls...he would never, ever forget tonight . To their great surprise, both he and Ron passed with good marks . They had hoped that Goyle, who was almost as stupid as he was mean, might be thrown out .
"You must come and stay this summer," said Ron, “both of you — I’ll send you an owl.” “Thanks,” said Harry, “I’ll need something to look forward to.” Some called: “Bye, Harry!” “See you, Potter!” “Still famous,” said Ron . It was Ginny Weasley, Ron’s younger sister, but she wasn’t pointing at Ron. “Oh, it was nothing, dear.” “Ready, are you?”
"See you over the summer, then," says Harry, looking uncertainly after Uncle Vernon . "Oh, I will," said Harry, and they were surprised at the grin that was spreading over his face .
