Durs­ley had been wo­ken in the ear­ly hours of the morn­ing by a loud, hoot­ing noise from his nephew Har­ry’s room . “I know what’ll hap­pen if that owl’s let out,” snarled Un­cle Ver­non, a bit of fried egg dan­gling from his bushy mus­tache .
Dud­ley gasped and fell off his chair with a crash that shook the whole kitchen . Mrs. Durs­ley gave a small scream and clapped her hands to her mouth . “I meant ‘please’!” said Har­ry quick­ly .
Har­ry Pot­ter was a wiz­ard fresh from his first year at Hog­warts School of Witchcraft . He missed the cas­tle, with its se­cret pas­sage­ways and ghosts, his class­es .
Un­cle Ver­non had even pad­locked Har­ry’s owl, Hed­wig, in­side her cage to stop her from car­ry­ing mes­sages to any­one in the wiz­ard­ing world .
Har­ry had tak­en up his place at wiz­ard school, where he and his scar were fa­mous...but now the school year was over, and he was back with the Durs­leys for the sum­mer, back to be­ing treat­ed like a dog that had rolled in some­thing smelly . At the age of one year old, he had some­how sur­vived a curse from the great­est Dark so
Har­ry looked up, hard­ly dar­ing to be­lieve it . Of course, he thought bit­ter­ly, Un­cle Ver­non was talking about the stupid din­ner par­ty .
“They’ll love him!” cried Aunt Petu­nia rap­tur­ously . “I’ll be in my bed­room, mak­ing no noise and pre­tend­ing I’m not there,” said Har­ry tone­less­ly .
Aunt Petu­nia burst in­to tears and hugged her son . Har­ry ducked un­der the ta­ble so they wouldn’t see him laugh­ing . “Too right, you will.” said Un­cle Ver­non force­ful­ly. “The Ma­sons don’t know any­thing about you and it’s go­ing to stay that way.
Ron Weasley and Hermione Granger had writ­ten to Har­ry all sum­mer . They, how­ev­er, didn’t seem to miss him at all . Ron had said he was going to ask him to come and stay . The Durs­leys weren’t al­lowed to use mag­ic out­side of school .
Lord Volde­mort had come face-to- face with none oth­er than him­self . Har­ry had slipped through his clutch­es for a sec­ond time, but it had been a nar­row es­cape . He had been star­ing ab­sent- mind­ed­ly in­to the hedge .
“To­day’s your birth­day,” sneered Dud­ley . “How come you haven’t got any cards? Haven’t you even got friends at that freak place?” said Har­ry cool­ly .
Aunt Petu­nia gave him work to do, with the promise he wouldn’t eat again un­til he’d fin­ished . While Dud­ley lolled around watch­ing and eat­ing ice cream, Har­ry cleaned the win­dows, washed the car, trimmed the flowerbeds, pruned and wa­tered the ros­es . The sun blazed over­head, burn­ing the back of his neck .
Har­ry washed his hands and bolted down his piti­ful sup­per . He caught a glimpse of Un­cle Ver­non and Dud­ley in bow ties and din­ner jack­ets .
“Er — hel­lo,” said Har­ry ner­vous­ly . “So long has Dob­by want­ed to meet you, sir...Such an hon­or it is....” “Th-thank you,” said edg­ing along the wall and sink­ing in­to his desk chair .
Har­ry thought he heard the voic­es down­stairs fal­ter . “Of­fend Dob­by!” choked the elf . At last he man­aged to con­trol him­self, and sat with his great eyes fixed on him .
“Dob­by has to pun­ish him­self most grievous­ly for com­ing to see you, sir....” Har­ry cu­ri­ously shud­dered . “Do they know you’re here?” asked Har­ries . „But won’t they no­tice if you shut your ears in the oven door?” Dobby doubts it . The Durs­leys sound al­most hu­man. Can’t any­
“Please,” Har­ry whis­pered fran­ti­cal­ly, “please be qui­et. If the Durs­leys hear any­thing, if they know you’re here —” “Har­ry Pot­ter asks if he can help Dob­by...” “What­ev­er you’ve heard about my great­ness is a load of rub­bish. I’m not even top of my year at Hog­war
Har­ry Pot­ter met the Dark Lord for a sec­ond time just weeks ago . “Ah, sir,” he gasped, dab­bing his face with a cor­ner of the grub­by pil­low­case he was wearing­ing . There was a si­lence bro­ken on­ly by the chink of knives and forks from down­stairs and the dis­tant rum­ble of Un­cle Ver
Dob­by has known it for months, sir. Har­ry Pot­ter must not put him­self in per­il . “What ter­ri­ble things?” cried Harry, grab­bing the elf’s arm to stop him . „You could just shake or nod,” he added hasti­ly .
Dob­by has heard Dum­ble­dore’s pow­ers ri­val those of He- Who- Must- Not- Be- Named at the height of his strength . And be­fore Har­ry could stop him . Dou­by’s voice dropped to an ur­gent whis­per .
“You’ve just ru­ined the punch line of my Japanese golfer joke...One more sound and you’ll wish you’d nev­er been born, boy!” He stomped flat-foot­ed from the room . “See what it’s like here?” said Dob­by sly­ly .
Har­ry Pot­ter will have them, sir, if he gives Dob­by his word that he will not re­turn to Hog­warts . “As you won’t go back, Sir!” “No,” said Dob–by an­gri­ly .
Aunt Petu­nia’s mas­ter­piece of a pud­ding, the moun­tain of cream and sug­ared vi­olets, was float­ing up near the ceil­ing . The dish fell to the floor with a heart-stop­ping crash . There were screams from the din­ing room and Un­cle Ver­non burst in­to the kitchen to find Har­ry cov­ered from
Aunt Petu­nia was just pass­ing around a box of af­ter- din­ner mints when a huge barn owl swooped through the din­ing room win­dow . Mrs. Ma­son screamed like a ban­shee and ran from the house shout­ing about lu­nians . Un­cle Ver­non ad­vanced on him, bran­dish­ing the let­
Mafal­da Hop­kirk IM­PROP­ER USE OF MAG­IC OF­FICE Min­istry of Mag­ic Har­ry looked up from the let­ter and gulped . “You didn’t tell us you weren’t al­lowed to use mag­ic out­side school,” said Un­cle Ver­non, a mad gleam danc­ing in his eyes .
Un­cle Ver­non paid a man to fit bars on Har­ry’s win­dow . He fit­ted a cat flap in the bed­room door so that small amounts of food could be pushed in­side three times a day . Oth­er­wise, he was locked in his room around the clock . But life at Priv­et Drive had reached an all-time low .
Har­ry, whose in­sides were aching with hunger, jumped off his bed and seized it . The soup was stone- cold, but he drank half of it in one gulp . He crossed the room to Hed­wig’s cage and tipped the sog­gy veg­eta­bles at the bot­tom .
Peo­ple gog­gled through the bars at him as he lay starv­ing and weak . He saw Dob­by’s face in the crowd and shout­ed, ask­ing for help . The Durs­leys ap­peared and Dud­ley rat­tled the bars of the cage . “Leave me alone...cut it out...I’m trying­ing to sleep....” Har­ry opened his eyes .
“Why haven’t you been an­swer­ing my let­ters? I’ve asked you to stay about twelve times, and then Dad came home and said you’d got an of­fi­cial warn­ing for us­ing mag­ic in front of Mug­gles . “You know we’re not sup­posed to do spells out­side school —” “You should talk,” said Har­ry, star­ing at the float­ing car .
Har­ry lis­tened anx­ious­ly, but there was no sound from the Durs­leys’ bed­room . When the bars were safe­ly in the back seat with Ron, Fred re­versed as close as pos­si­ble to Harry’s win­dow . You had to hand it to them, thought George, as he started picking the lock .
Har­ry dashed around his room, col­lect­ing his things and passing them out of the win­dow to Ron . At last, pant­ing, they reached the land­ing and car­ried the trunk up the stairs . Fred climbed back in­to the car to pull with Ron, and Harry and George pushed from the bed­room side . Un­cle Ver­non coughed again .
Har­ry snatched up Hed­wig’s cage, dashed to the win­dow, and passed it out to Ron . For a split sec­ond, Un­cle Ver­non stood framed in the door­way . He let out a bellow like an an­gry bull and dive­bered at him, grab­bing him by the an­kle .
George hand­ed the hair­pin to Ron and, a mo­ment lat­er, Hed­wig soared joy­ful­ly out of the win­dow to glide along­side them like a ghost . There was a long, shocked si­lence when he had fin­ished . “I don’t think he could,” said Har­ry .
“Dra­co Mal­foy” ex­plained. “He hates me.” “Must be, it’s not a very com­mon name, is it?” said George . “I’ve heard Dad talk­ing about him,” said George, turn­ing around .
Dra­co Mal­foy usu­al­ly had the best of ev­ery­thing . Send­ing the fam­ily ser­vant to stop Har­ry from go­ing back to Hog­warts al­so sound­ed ex­act­ly . “I’m glad we came to get you, any­way,” said Ron .
“He works in the most bor­ing de­part­ment,” said Ron . “It’s all to do with be­witch­ing things that are Mug­gle-made, you know, in case they end up back in a Mug-gle shop or house,” Fred laughed .
A faint pink­ish glow was vis­ible along the hori­zon to the east . Low­er and low­er went the fly­ing car, and Har­ry saw a dark patch­work of fields and clumps of trees . “Touch­down!” said Fred as, with a slight bump, they hit the ground .
Mrs. Weasley was march­ing across the yard, scat­ter­ing chick­ens, and for a short, plump, kind- faced wom­an, it was re­mark­able how much she looked like a saber- toothed tiger . “Morn­ing, Mum,” said George, in a dead­ly whis­per .
Mrs. Weasley had shout­ed her­self hoarse be­fore she turned on Har­ry, who backed away . The kitchen was small and rather cramped .
The clock on the wall op­po­site him had on­ly one hand and no num­bers at all . Books were stacked three deep on the man­tel­piece, books with ti­tles like Charm Your Own Cheese, En­chant­ment in Bak­ing, and One Minute Feasts — It’s Mag­ic! Mrs. Weasley was clat­ter­ing around, cook­ing break­fast a little hap­
“I think I’ll go to bed and —” “You will not,” snapped Mrs. Weasley . “They were starv­ing him, Mum!” said George. “You keep your mouth closed while you’re eat­ing!” said Mrs. weasley, but it was with a slight­ly softened ex­pres­sion .
Har­ry looked at the cov­er of Mrs. Weasley’s book . There was a big pho­to­graph on the front of a very good-looking wiz­ard with wavy blond hair and bright blue eyes . “Oh, he is mar­velous,” she said. “Mum fan­cies him,” said Fred .
The Durs­leys wouldn’t have liked it — there were plen­ty of weeds, and the grass need­ed cut­ting . There were gnarled trees all around the walls, plants Har­ry had seen spilling from ev­ery flow­er bed, and a big green pond full of frogs . “Yeah, I’ve seen those things they think are gnomes,” said Ron .
gnome flew twen­ty feet in­to the air and land­ed with a thud in the field over the hedge . “I bet I can get mine be­yond that stump,” said Fred. “This is what you have to do,” he said .
Mr. Weasley was slumped in a kitchen chair with his glass­es off and his eyes closed . He was wearing long green robes, which were dusty and trav­el- worn . “What a night,” he mum­bled, grop­ing for the teapot .
Mr. Weasley stared guilti­ly at his wife . “Imag­ine a wiz­ard buy­ing a rusty old car and telling his wife all he wanted to do with it was take it apart to see how it worked, while re­al­ly he was en­chant­ing it to make it fly” Mr. Heasley blinked .
Ron mut­tered to Har­ry as Mrs. Weasley swelled like a bull­frog . “You don’t know how weird it is for her to be this shy. She nev­er shuts up nor­mal­ly,” said Ron .
Ron’s school spell­books were stacked un­tidi­ly in a cor­ner, next to a pile of comics that all seemed to fea­ture The Ad­ven­tures of Mar­tin Miggs, the Mad Mug­gle . He was ly­ing on top of a fish tank full of frog spawn on the win­dowsill next to his fat gray rat, Scab­bers, who was sno
Harry Potter and The Chamber of Secrets CHAPTER FOUR AT FLOUR­ISH AND BLOTTS . Har­ry looked out of the tiny win­dow as though waiting for his opin­ion . He looked at Ron, who was watching him al­most ner­vous­ly .
The Durs­leys liked ev­ery­thing neat and or­dered . The Weasleys’ house burst with the strange and un­ex­pect­ed . What Har­ry found most un­usu­al about life at Ron’s was the talk­ing mir­ror or the clank­ing ghoul .
Gin­ny al­ready knocked her por­ridge bowl to the floor with a loud clat­ter . Har­ry sat down and took the toast Mrs. Weasley of­fered him . There was si­lence as they all read their let­ters .
Gilderoy Lock­hart Gadding with Ghouls with Hags by Gil Deroy Lock-hart 43 Trav­els with Trolls with Vam­pires with Were­wolves by GilDeroy Lock–hart Year with the Yeti . At this point, Fred caught his moth­er’s eye and quick­ly bus­ied him­self with the mar­malade . “That lot won’t come cheap,” said George, with a quick look at his par­ent
Ron tak­ing the limp owl from Per­cy and ex­tract­ing a let­ter from un­der its wing . He car­ried Er­rol to a perch just in­side the back door and tried to stand him on it . Then he ripped open Hermione’s an­swer and read it out loud: “Dear Ron, and Har­ry if you’re there, “I hope ev­
Har­ry, Ron, Fred, and George were planning to go up the hill to a small pad­dock the Weasleys owned . It was sur­round­ed by trees that blocked it from view of the vil­lage be­low . They could prac­tice Quid­ditch there, as long as they didn’t fly too high . In­stead they threw ap­ples for one an­oth­er to catch .
“Wish I knew what he was up to,” said Fred . “Or­di­nary Wiz­ard­ing Lev­els,” George ex­plained . Bill was the old­est Weasley broth­er . Char­lie and Bill had al­ready left Hog­warts .
Har­ry had nev­er men­tioned his Gringotts bank ac­count to the Durs­leys . He didn’t think their hor­ror of any­thing con­nect­ed with mag­ic would stretch to a large pile of gold . Mrs. Weasley woke them all ear­ly the fol­low­ing Wednes­day .
Mr. Weasley ea­ger­ly said Floo pow­der is a lot quick­er, dear, but good­ness me, if you’ve nev­er used it be­fore . “He’ll be all right, Mum,” said Fred. “Harry, watch us first.” George stepped right in­to it, shout­ing, “Di­agon Al­ley!” and van­ished. “You must speak clear­ly, dear,” Mrs
Har­ry took a pinch of Floo pow­der and walked to the edge of the fire . The fire felt like a warm breeze; he opened his mouth and im­me­di­ate­ly swal­lowed a lot of hot ash . It felt as though he was be­ing sucked down a gi­ant drain . He tried to keep his eyes open but the whirl of green flames made him feel sick .
A glass case near­by held a hand on a cush­ion, a blood­stained pack of cards, and a star­ing glass eye . Evil-looking masks stared down from the walls, an as­sort­ment of hu­man bones lay up­on the counter . The soon­er he got out of here, the bet­ter . Har­ry made his way swift­ly and silent­ly to­ward the door .
Har­ry Pot­ter got a Nim­bus Two Thou­sand last year . He’s not even that good, it’s just be­cause he’s fa­mous for hav­ing a stupid scar on his fore­head....” Mal­foy bent down to ex­am­ine a shelf full of skulls .
“You have told me this at least a dozen times al­ready,” said Mr. Mal­foy . Mr. Bor­gin had ap­peared be­hind the counter, smooth­ing his greasy hair back from his face .
Mr. Mal­foy still com­mands a cer­tain re­spect, yet the Min­istry grows ev­er more med­dle­some . There are ru­mors about a new Mug­gle Pro­tec­tion Act . Har­ry felt a hot surge of anger .
“I would have thought you’d be ashamed that a girl of no wiz­ard fam­ily beat you in ev­ery ex­am,” snapped Mr. Mal­foy . “I am in some­thing of a hur­ry, Bor­gin, I have im­por­tant busi­ness else­where to­day —” They start­ing to hag­gle .
Har­ry wiped his fore­head on his sleeve as Dra­co turned away . “Good day to you, Mr. Bor­gin. I’ll ex­pect you at the manor to­mor­row to pick up the goods.” The mo­ment the door had closed .
Har­ry had emerged in­to a dingy al­ley­way that seemed to be made up en­tire­ly of shops de­vot­ed to the Dark Arts . The one he’d just left looked like the largest, but op­po­site was a nasty win­dow dis­play of shrunk­en heads and, two doors down, a large cage was alive with gi­gan­tic black spi­ders .
Har­ry cursed as the mas­sive form of Ha­grid came strid­ing to­ward them, bee­tle- black eyes flash­ing over his great bristling beard . “I was lost — Floo pow­der—” Ha­Grid seized Har-ry by the scruff of the neck and pulled him away from the witch, knock­ing the tray right out of her hands .
“I’m staying with the Weasleys but we got sep­arat­ed,” Har­ry ex­plained . “How come yeh nev­er wrote back ter me?” said Ha­grid as Harry jogged along­side him .
“I should rud­dy well think not,” growled Ha­grid . Mrs. Weasley now came gal­lop­ing in­to view, her hand­bag swinging wild­ly in one hand, Gin­ny just cling­ing on­to the oth­er . “Well, gotta be off,” said Har­ry, who was hav­ing his hand wrung .
Mr. Weasley was dis­tract­ed al­most at once by the sight of Hermione’s par­ents . “But you’re Mug­gles!” said Mr. Ron . "Meet you back here,” Mr. Granger said .
Har­ry en­joyed the break­neck jour­ney down to Knock­turn Al­ley . There was a very small pile of sil­ver Sick­les in­side, and just one gold Galleon . Mrs. Weasley felt even worse when they reached his vault .
Har­ry, Ron, and Hermione strolled off along the wind­ing, cob­bled street . Ron bought three large straw­ber­ry- and- peanut-but­ter ice creams . They slurped hap­pi­ly as they wan­dered up the al­ley . Per­cy was deeply im­mersed in a small and deeply bor­ing book .
Ron told Har­ry and Hermione in an un­der­tone as they left Per­cy to it . The crowd seemed to be made up most­ly of witches around Mrs. Weasley’s age . GILDEROY LOCK­HART will be sign­ing copies of his au­to­bi­og­ra­phy MAG­ICAL ME to­day 12:30 P.M. to 4:30 P. M.
Gilderoy Lock­hart came slow­ly in­to view, seat­ed at a ta­ble . He was wearing robes of forget- me- not blue that ex­act­ly matched his eyes . “Out of the way, there,” he snarled at Ron, mov­ing back to get a bet­ter shot .
Har­ry’s face burned as Lock­hart shook his hand for the pho­tog­ra­pher waft­ing thick smoke over the Weasleys . “To­geth­er, you and I are worth the front page,” said Lock–hart .
Har­ry stepped in to Flour­ish and Blotts to buy his au­to­bi­og­ra­phy . “He had no idea,” Lock­hart con­tin­ued, giv­ing him a lit­tle shake that made his glass­es slip to the end of his nose . He and his school­mates will, in fact, be getting­ting the re­al mag­ical me .
Gin­ny went scar­let as Ron and Hermione fought their way over . “Bet you’re sur­prised to see Har­ry here, eh?” re­tort­ed Mal­foy .
Mr. Mal­foy reached in­to Gin­ny’s caul­dron and ex­tract­ed, from amid the glossy Lock­hart books . Mr. Weasley flushed dark­er than ei­ther Ron or Ginny . “We have a very dif­fer­ent idea of what dis­graces the name of wiz­ard” .
Mr. Weasley had a cut lip and Mr. Mal­foy had been hit in the eye by an En­cy­clo­pe­dia of Toad­stools . He thrust it at Gin­ny’s old Trans­fig­ura­tion book, his eyes glit­ter­ing with mal­ice . “Yeh should’ve ig­nored him, Arthur,” said Ha­grid .
“Didn’t you hear him as we were leav­ing? He was asking that bloke from the Dai­ly Prophet if he’d be able to work the fight in­to his re­port — said it was all pub­lic­ity —” But it was a sub­dued group that head­ed back to the fire­side in the Leaky Caul­dron . Har­ry, the Weasleys, and all
Fred and George round­ed off the evening with a dis­play of Fil­ibuster fire­works . They filled the kitchen with red and blue stars that bounced from ceil­ing to wall for at least half an hour . It took a long while to get started­ing next morn­ing, but some­how they still seemed to have a great deal to do .
Har­ry, Ron, Fred, George, and Percy were all sitting com­fort­ably side by side . Mrs. Weasley glanced at his watch and then at his wife . “No one would see — this lit­tle button here is an In­vis­ibil­ity Booster I in­stalled — that’d get us up in the air — then we fly above the clouds. We’d be there in ten min­utes and no
Har­ry had caught the Hogwarts Ex­press the pre­vi­ous year . The tricky part was getting on­to plat­form nine and three- quar­ters . It didn’t hurt, but it had to be done care­ful­ly so that none of the Mug­gles no­ticed you van­ish­ing .
Har­ry made sure that Hed­wig’s cage was safe­ly wedged on top of his trunk and wheeled his trol­ley around to face the bar­ri­er . He felt per­fect­ly con­fi­dent; this wasn’t near­ly as un­com­fort­able as us­ing Floo pow­der . A few feet away from it, they broke in­to a run and — CRASH .
Ron pressed his ear to the cold bar­ri­er . “The Durs­leys haven’t giv­en me pock­et mon­ey for about six years.” Ron said .
“We’re stuck, right? And we’ve got to get to school, haven’t we? And even un­der­age wiz­ards are al­lowed to use mag­ic if it’s a re­al emer­gen­cy, sec­tion nine­teen or some­thing of the Re­stric­tion of Thingy —” said Har­ry, pushing­ing against the bar­ri­er again in the vain hope that
Traf­fic was rum­bling along the main road ahead, but their street was emp­ty . Har­ry pressed a tiny sil­ver but­ton on the dash­board . The car around them van­ished — and so did they .
The Hog­warts Ex­press was streak­ing along be­low them like a scarlet snake . The wheels of the car skimmed the sea of fluffy cloud, the sky a bright, end­less blue un­der the blind­ing white sun . It was as though they had been plunged in­to a fabulous dream .
Lon­don was soon far be­hind them, re­placed by neat green fields that gave way in turn to wide, pur­plish moors . The tof­fees had made them ex­treme­ly thirsty and they had noth­ing to drink . He and Ron had pulled off their sweaters, but Har­ry’s T- shirt was sticking to the back of his seat .
“It’s prob­ably just tired,” said Ron . Har­ry pulled his sweater back on, trying to ig­nore the way the wind­shield wipers were now wav­ing fee­bly, as though in protest . “Not far now,” Ron said, “not far now” and pat­ted the dash­board ner­vous­ly .
Har­ry saw the smooth, black, glassy sur­face of the wa­ter . “Come on,” Ron mut­tered. There was a loud clunk, a splut­ter, and the en­gine died com­plete­ly . The nose of the car dropped. They were falling, gath­er­ing speed, head­ing straight for the sol­id cas­tle wall .
Ron gasped, star­ing through the wind­shield, and Har­ry looked around just in time to see a branch as thick as a python smash in­to it . Its trunk was bent al­most dou­ble, and its gnarled boughs were pum­mel­ing ev­ery inch of the car it could reach .
Ron shout­ed, throwing his full weight against his door, but next sec­ond he had been knocked back­ward in­to Har­ry’s lap by a vi­cious up­per­cut from an­oth­er branch . “We’re done for!” Ron moaned as the ceil­ing sagged, but sud­den­ly the floor of the car was vi­brat­ing, the en­gine had restart­e
The car, how­ev­er, had reached the end of its teth­er . Loud thuds told him that the car was eject­ing their lug­gage from the trunk . Hed­wig’s cage flew through the air and burst open; she rose out of it with an an­gry screech . “Can you be­lieve our luck?” said Ron mis­er­ably .
In­nu­mer­able can­dles were hov­er­ing in midair over four long, crowd­ed ta­bles . Over­head, the be­witched ceil­ing, which al­ways mir­rored the sky out­side, sparkled with stars .
Har­ry and Ron had helped Gryffind­or win the House Cham­pi­onship . A very small, mousy-haired boy had been called for­ward to place the hat on his head . He saw Gilderoy Lock­hart, dressed in aqua­ma­rine, drink­ing deeply from his gob­let .
Severus Snape was Har­ry’s least fa­vorite teach­er . Cru­el, sar­cas­tic, and dis­liked by ev­ery­body ex­cept the stu­dents from his own house . “Maybe he’s ill!” said Ron hope­ful­ly .
Snape closed the door and turned to look at them . “No, sir, it was the bar­ri­er at King’s Cross, it —” Snape said .
“You were seen,” Snape hissed, showing them the head­line: FLY­ING FORD AN­GLIA MYS­TI­FIES MUG­GLES . “Dear, dear...his own son...” Har­ry felt as though he’d just been wal­loped in the stom­ach by one of the mad tree’s larg­er branch­es .
“Si­lence!” snapped Snape again . “Most un­for­tu­nate­ly, you are not in my House and the de­ci­sion to ex­pel you does not rest with me. I shall go and fetch the peo­ple who do have that hap­py pow­er. You will wait here.” Har­ry didn’t feel hun­gry any more. He tried not to look at a large, slimy some­
Pro­fes­sor McG­ona­gall said cold­ly to Har­ry . She said it seemed the ob­vi­ous thing to have done . There was a knock on the of­fice door and Snape, now looking hap­pi­er than ev­er, opened it .
Har­ry hat­ed the dis­ap­point­ment in his voice . He told Dum­ble­dore ev­ery­thing ex­cept that Mr. Weasley owned the be­witched car .
Snape shot a look of pure ven­om at Har­ry and Ron as he al­lowed him to be swept out of his of­fice . “You’d bet­ter get along to the hos­pi­tal wing, Weasley, you’re bleed­ing.” “Not much,” said Ron, hasti­ly wip­ing the cut over his eye with his sleeve .
Pro­fes­sor McG­ona­gall raised her wand again and point­ed it at Snape’s desk . “Your sis­ter is al­so in Gryffind­or.” “Oh, good,” said Ron .
“Can you be­lieve our luck, though?” said Ron thick­ly through a mouth­ful of chick­en and ham . “Fred and George must’ve flown that car five or six times and no Mug­gle ev­er saw them.” Har­ry shrugged .
“There you are! Where have you been? The most ridicu­lous ru­mors — some­one said you’d been ex­pelled for crash­ing a fly­ing car!” said Har­ry . “You’re not telling me you did fly here?” said Hermione im­pa­tient­ly, sound­ing al­most as se­vere as Pro­fe­sor McG­ona­gall .
Fred and George pushed their way to the front of the crowd and said to­geth­er, “Why couldn’t we’ve come in the car, eh?” Ron was scarlet in the face, grin­ning em­bar­rass­ed­ly . Har­ry nudged Ron in the ribs and nod­ded in Per­cy’s di­rec­tion .
Har­ry en­tered the fa­mil­iar, cir­cu­lar room with its five posters hung with red vel­vet and its high, nar­row win­dows . They hur­ried up it, right to the top, and reached the door of their old dor­mi­to­ry, which now had a sign saying­ing SEC­OND YEARS .
The four long house ta­bles were laden with tureens of por­ridge, plates of kip­pers, moun­tains of toast, and dish­es of eggs and ba­con . There was a slight stiff­ness in the way she said “Morn­ing,” which told Har­ry that she was still dis­prov­ing of the way they had ar­rived . Neville Long­bot­tom, on the oth
“It’s not that — it’s that.” Ron was point­ing at the red en­ve­lope . It looked quite or­di­nary to Har­ry, but Ron and Neville looked at it as though they ex­pect­ed it to ex­plode . “You’d bet­ter open it, Ron,” said Neville .
Ron sank so low in his chair that on­ly his crim­son forehead could be seen . He tried very hard to look as though he couldn’t hear the voice that was mak­ing his eardrums throb .
Har­ry and Ron sat stunned, as though a tidal wave had just passed over them . A few peo­ple laughed and, grad­ual­ly, a talk broke out again .
Har­ry, Ron, and Hermione left the cas­tle to­geth­er, crossed the veg­etable patch, and made for the green­hous­es, where the mag­ical plants were kept . Gilderoy Lock­hart was im­mac­ulate in sweep­ing robes of turquoise, his gold­en hair shin­ing un­der a per­fect­ly po­si­tioned turquoise hat with gold trim­
Pro­fes­sor Sprout looked dis­tinct­ly dis­grun­tled, not at all her cheer­ful self . They had on­ly ev­er worked in green­house one be­fore . Har­ry caught a whiff of damp earth and fer­til­iz­er min­gling .
Lock­hart had no idea what he was talking about . It was re­mark­able how he could show ev­ery one of those brilliant teeth . “Gave you a taste for pub­lic­ity, didn’t I?” he said .
Lock­hart says Har­ry is an in­ter­na­tion­al­ly fa­mous wiz­ard al­ready! But when he was twelve, I was just as much of a no­body as you are now . “I know, I know — it’s not quite as good as win­ning Witch Week­ly’s Most Charm­ing Smile Award five times in a row, as I have — but it's a start, Har­
Pro­fes­sor Sprout was standing be­hind a tres­tle bench in the cen­ter of the green­house . About twen­ty pairs of dif­fer­ent- col­ored ear muffs were ly­ing on the bench . Hermione’s hand was first in­to the air .
A tufty lit­tle plants, pur­plish green in col­or, were grow­ing there in rows . They looked quite un­re­mark­able to Har­ry, who didn’t have the slight­est idea what Hermione meant by the “cry” of the Man­drake .
Pro­fes­sor Sprout took a large plant pot from un­der the ta­ble and plunged the Man­drake in­to it, bury­ing him in dark, damp com­post un­til on­ly the tuft­ed leaves were vis­ible . Har­ry, Ron, and Hermione were joined at their tray by a curly-haired Huf­flepuff boy Harry knew by sight but had
Justin hap­pi­ly as they be­gan fill­ing their plant pots with drag­on dung com­post . “I’d have died of fear if Id been cor­nered in a tele­phone booth by a were­wolf, but he stayed cool and — zap — just fan­tas­tic .
Pro­fes­sor Sprout had made it look ex­treme­ly easy, but it wasn’t . They squirmed, kicked, flailed their sharp lit­tle fists, and gnashed their teeth . By the end of the class, Har­ry, like ev­ery­one else, was sweaty, aching .
Ron had patched up his wand with some bor­rowed Spel­lotape, but it seemed to be dam­aged re­pair . It kept crack­ling and spark­ing at odd mo­ments, and ev­ery time Ron tried to trans­fig­ure his bee­tle it en­gulfed him in thick gray smoke that smelled of rot­ten eggs . Pro­fes­sor McG­ona­gall
Hermione snatched the schedule back, blush­ing fu­ri­ous­ly . They fin­ished lunch and went out­side in­to the over­cast court­yard . Har­ry and Ron stood talking­ing about Quid­ditch for sev­er­al min­utes .
Col­in Creevey ea­ger­ly, edg­ing fur­ther for­ward, said, “I know all about you. Ev­ery­one’s told me. About how you sur­vived when You- Know- Who tried to kill you” . “I’m tak­ing loads of pic­tures to send home to him. And it’d be re­al­ly good if I had one of you,” he said
“Ev­ery­one line up!” Mal­foy roared to the crowd . “You’re just jeal­ous,” piped up Col­in, whose en­tire body was about as thick as Crabbe’s neck . He put on a shrill, pierc­ing voice .
Gilderoy Lock­hart was strid­ing to the crowd, his turquoise robes swirling be­hind him . Har­ry flung an arm around his shoul­ders and thun­dered jovial­ly, “Shouldn’t have asked!” Pinned to Lock­hard’s side and burn­ing with hu­mil­ia­tion . “Come on then, Mr. Creevey,” said
Har­ry yanked his robes straight and head­ed for a seat at the very back of the class . Lock­hart cleared his throat loud­ly and silence fell . He picked up Neville Long­bottom’s copy of Trav­els with Trolls .
Gilderoy Lock­hart, Or­der of Mer­lin, Third Class, Hon­orary Mem­ber of the Dark Force De­fense League, and five-time win­ner of Witch Week­ly’s Most Charm­ing Smile Award . When he had hand­ed out the test pa­pers he re­turned to the front of the class and said, “You have thir­ty min­utes — start — now!” Har­ry looked down
“Tut, tut — hard­ly any of you re­mem­bered that my fa­vorite col­or is lilac. I say so in Year with the Yeti. And a few of you need to read Wan­der­ings with Were­wolves more care­ful­ly . I clear­ly state in chap­ter twelve that my birth­day gift would be har­mo­ny be­tween all mag­ic
Sea­mus Finni­gan couldn’t con­trol him­self for a scream of ter­ror . Lock­hart whipped off the cov­er. “Yes,” Dean said dra­mat­ically. “Fresh­ly caught Cor­nish pix­ies.” Sea-mus choked . “Don’t be so sure!” said Lock-hart, wag­gling a fin­ger an­noy­ing­ly at
The pix­ies shot in ev­ery di­rec­tion like rock­ets . Two of them seized Neville by the ears and lift­ed him in­to the air . They grabbed ink bot­tles and sprayed the class with them, shred­ded books and pa­pers .
Lock­hart gulped and dived un­der his own desk, nar­row­ly avoid­ing squashed by Neville . He swept past Har­ry, Ron, and Hermione, who were al­most at the door . “Can you be­lieve him?” roared Ron as one of the re­maining pix­ies bit him painful­ly on the ear .
Col­in Creevey seemed to have mem­orized Har­ry’s sched­ule . Hed­wig was still an­gry with Harry about the dis­as­trous car jour­ney . Ron’s Wand was still mal­func­tion­ing, sur­pass­ing it­self on Fri­day morn­ing .
Har­ry was a tall and burly sixth year and, at the mo­ment, his eyes were gleam­ing with a crazed en­thu­si­asm . “Com on, grab your broom, and let’s go,” said Wood hearti­ly .
Har­ry looked be­mus­ed­ly at the pho­to­graph Col­in was bran­dish­ing un­der his nose . Lock­hart gave up and slumped, Pant­ing, against the white edge of the pic­ture . “Oh, wow! Wait for me! I’m in a hur­ry — Quid­ditch prac­tice!” He climbed through the por­trait hole af­ter him
Har­ry heav­ily re­signed to ex­plain­ing Quid­ditch rules . There are two Beat­ers on each team who car­ry clubs to beat the Bludgers away from their side .
“Yes,” said Har­ry as they left the cas­tle and start­ing across the dew- drenched grass . “And there’s the Keep­er, too. He guards the goal posts. That’s it, re­al­ly.” Col­in called af­ter him in a pip­ing voice and hur­ried off to the stands . Wood was the on­ly per­son who looked tru­ly awake .
Fred Weasley’s head drooped right on­to Ali­cia Spin­net’s shoul­der and he be­gan to snore . The first board took near­ly twen­ty min­utes to ex­plain, but there was an­oth­er board un­der that . “I’ve got a ques­tion, Oliv­er,” said George .
Gryffind­or had suf­ered their worst de­feat in three hun­dred years . Wood took a mo­ment to re­gain con­trol of him­self . They had been in the lock­er room so long that the sun was up com­plete­ly now, al­though rem­nants of mist hung over the grass .
He soared right around the sta­di­um at full speed, rac­ing Fred and George . “What’s that fun­ny click­ing noise?” called Fred as they hur­tled around the cor­ner. “Look this way, Har­ry! This way!” said Fred .
“I booked the field for to­day! We’ll see about this!” Wood shot to­ward the ground, land­ing rather hard­er than he meant to in his anger . “Flint!” Wood bel­lowed at the Slytherin Cap­tain. “This is our prac­tice time! We got up spe­cial­ly! You can clear off now!” An­geli­na, Ali­cia, and Katie had come over .
Nim­bus Two Thou­sand and One gleamed un­der the Gryffind­ors’ noses in the ear­ly morn­ing sun . “Only came out last month,” said Flint care­less­ly, flick­ing a speck of dust from the end of his own .
“I’m the new Slytherin Seek­er, Weasley,” said Mal­foy smooth­ly . “You could raf­fle off those Clean­sweep Fives; I ex­pect a mu­se­um would bid for them.” The Gryffind­or team howled with laugh­ter .
Ron gave an almighty belch and sev­er­al slugs drib­bled out of his mouth on­to his lap . The Gryffind­ors were gath­ered around Ron, who kept belching large, glis­ten­ing . No­body seemed to want to touch him . Col­in had run down from his seat and was now danc­ing along­side them as they left the field .
“Get out of the way, Col­in!” said Har­ry an­gri­ly . He and Hermione sup­port­ed Ron from the sta­di­um and across the grounds to­ward the edge of the for­est . “You’ll be all right in a minute — al­most there —” They were with­in twen­ty feet of Ha­grid’s house when the front door opened, but it wasn’t
Har­ry and Hermione sup­port­ed Ron over the thresh­old in­to a chair . “Bet­ter out than in,” he said cheer­ful­ly, plunk­ing a large cop­per basin in front of him . He didn’t seem per­turbed by Ron’s slug prob­lem .
Hermione, how­ev­er, said in a voice some­what high­er than usu­al, “I think you’re be­ing a bit un­fair. Pro­fes­sor Dumble­dore ob­vi­ous­ly thought he was the best man for the job,” said Ha­grid, of­fer­ing them a plate of trea­cle fudge . Ron coughed squel
“It’s about the most in­sult­ing thing he could think of,” gasped Ron . “Mud­blood’s a re­al­ly foul name for some­one who is Mug­gle- born — you know, non- mag­ic par­ents.” He gave a small burp, and a sin­gle slug fell in­to his out­stretched hand .
“I don’t blame yeh fer tryin’ ter curse him, Ron,” said Ha­grid loud­ly . “Bet he didn’t like that,” said Har­ry, sit­ting up and rub­bing his chin .
“No thanks,” said Ron weak­ly . “Bet­ter not risk it.” “Come an’ see what I’ve bin growin’” said Ha­grid as Har­ry and Hermione fin­ished the last of their tea.
Har­ry had rea­son to be­lieve be­fore now that this um­brel­la was not all it looked . Ha­grid wasn’t sup­posed to use mag­ic . He had been ex­pelled from Hog­warts in his third year .
Ron gulped. Ar­gus Filch, the care­tak­er, was loathed by ev­ery stu­dent in the school . “You will be pol­ish­ing the sil­ver in the tro­phy room with Mr. Filch,” said Pro­fes­sor McG­ona­gall .
Har­ry and Ron slouched in­to the Great Hall in states of deep­est gloom . Both he and Ron felt they’d got the worse deal . “No mag­ic! There must be about a hun­dred cups in that room. I’m no good at Mug­gle clean­ing.” “I’d swap any­time,” said Ron hol­low­ly. “Ah, here’s the scalawag!” Lock­
Har­ry let Lock­hart’s voice wash over him, oc­ca­sion­al­ly say­ing, “Mmm,” “Right” and “Yeah.” Now and then he caught a phrase like, “Celebrity is as celebri­ty does, re­mem­ber that.” The can­dles burned low­er and low–er, mak­ing the light dance . It must be near­ly time to leave, Har
Lock­hart was looking at Har­ry in high as­ton­ish­ment . It was so late that the Gryffind­or com­mon room was al­most emp­ty . He was strain­ing his ears to hear the voice again .
Harry Potter and The Chamber of Secrets CHAPTER EIGHT THE DEATH­DAY PAR­TY . “I don’t get it ei­ther,” said Har­ry, ly­ing back in his four poster .
Gin­ny Weasley was bul­lied in­to tak­ing some by Per­cy . The steam pour­ing from un­der her vivid hair gave the im­pres­sion that her whole head was on fire . Oliv­er Wood’s en­thu­si­asm for reg­ular train­ing ses­sions was not damp­ened .
Fred and George had seen for them­selves the speed of those new Nim­bus Two Thou­sand and Ones . They re­port­ed that the Slytherin team was no more than sev­en green­ish blurs, shoot­ing through the air like mis­siles. Near­ly Head­less Nick was star­ing mo­rose­ly out of a win­dow, mut­ter­ing un­der his breath.
Near­ly Head­less Nick erupt­ed sud­den­ly, pulling the let­ter back out of his pock­et . “Oh — yes,” said Har­ry, who was ob­vi­ous­ly sup­posed to agree . It is with the great­est re­gret, there­fore, that I must in­form you that you do not ful­fill our require­ments .
Near­ly Head­less Nick took sev­er­al deep breaths and said, in a far calmer tone, “What’s bother­ing you? Any­thing I can do?” Har­ry said . The rest of Harry’s sen­tence was drowned out by a high- pitched mewl­ing from some­where near his an­kles . It was Mrs. Nor­ris, the skele­tal gray cat who was used by
Ar­gus Filch burst sud­den­ly through a tapestry to Har­ry’s right, wheez­ing and looking wild­ly about for the rule-breaker . There was a thick tar­tan scarf bound around his head, and his nose was un­usu­al­ly pur­ple . “Filth!” he shout­ed, his jowls aquiver, his eyes pop­ing alarm­ing­ly as
Har­ry had nev­er been in­side Filch’s office be­fore . The room was dingy and win­dow­less, lit by a sin­gle oil lamp dan­gling from the low ceil­ing . A faint smell of fried fish lin­gered about the place .
Filch shiv­er­ing un­pleas­ant­ly at the end of his bul­bous nose . “Crime...be­foul­ing the cas­tle...sug­gest­ed sen­tence...” Filch, roared, fling­ing down his quill in a trans­port of rage .
Kwik­spell is an all-new, fail-safe, quick- re­sult, easy- learn course . Madam Z. Net­tles of Top­sham writes: “I had no mem­ory for in­can­ta­tions and my po­tions were a fam­ily joke! Now, af­ter a course, I am the cen­ter of atten­tion at par­ties and friends beg for the
Filch wanted a Kwik­spell course? Did this mean he wasn’t a prop­er wiz­ard? Filch threw the parch­ment back in­to the en­ve­lope just as the door opened .
Filch's eyes were pop­ping, a tic was go­ing in one of his pouchy cheeks . To es­cape from Filch’s of­fice with­out pun­ish­ment was prob­ably some kind of school record . Har­ry could see the wreck­age of a large black- and- gold cabinet that ap­peared to have been dropped from a great height .
Near­ly Head­less Nick, Har­ry no­ticed, was still holding Sir Patrick’s re­jec­tion let­ter . “I wish there was some­thing I could do for you,” said Harry ex­cit­ed­ly . Friends will be com­ing from all over the coun­try .
Har­ry was halfway through his Po­tions home­work and grumpy . Rain was still lash­ing the win­dows, which were now inky black .
Har­ry was re­gret­ing his rash promise to go to the death­day par­ty . The Great Hall had been dec­orat­ed with the usu­al live bats, Ha­grid’s vast pumpkins had been carved in­to lanterns large enough for three men to sit in .
Near­ly Head­less Nick’s par­ty had been lined with can­dles, too . The tem­per­ature dropped with ev­ery step they took . Har­ry shiv­ered and drew his robes tight­ly around him . “My dear friends,” he said mourn­ful­ly .
“Care­ful not to walk through any­one,” said Ron nervous­ly . They passed a group of gloomy nuns, a ragged man wear­ing chains, and the Fat Fri­ar . Har­ry wasn’t sur­prised to see that the Bloody Baron was be­ing giv­en a wide berth by the oth­er ghosts .
rot­ten fish were laid on hand­some sil­ver plat­ters; cakes, burned char­coal- black, were heaped on salvers . There was a great mag­goty hag­gis, a slab of cheese cov­ered in fur­ry green mold and, in pride of place, an enor­mous gray cake in the shape of a tomb­stone .
Peeves the Poltergeist was the very reverse of pale and trans­parent . He was wearing a bright or­ange par­ty hat, a revolv­ing bow tie, and a broad grin on his wide, wicked face . “No thanks,” said Hermione, of­fer­ing them a bowl of peanuts cov­ered in fun­gus .
Moan­ing Myr­tle burst in­to an­guished sobs and fled from the dun­geon . Near­ly Head­less Nick now drift­ed to­ward them through the crowd .
The or­ches­tra, how­ev­er, stopped playing at that very mo­ment . Through the dun­geon wall burst a dozen ghost hors­es, each rid­den by a head­less horse­man . Har­ry start­ed to clap, too, but stopped quick­ly at the sight of Nick’s face .
Har­ry hur­ried­ly, at a mean­ing look from Nick, “Nick’s very — fright­en­ing —” “Ha!” yelled Sir Patrick’s head . “If I could have ev­ery­one’s at­ten­tion, it’s time for my speech!” said Near­ly Head­less Nick loud­ly .
Ron and Hermione clat­ter­ing be­hind him . “Har­ry, what’re you —?” “...rip...tear...kill...” “...soo hun­gry...for so long...” “Lis­ten!” said Har­ry ur­gent­ly . The voice was growing fainter .
Ron and Hermione pant­ing be­hind him, not stop­ping un­til they turned a cor­ner in­to the last, de­sert­ed pas­sage . “Harry, what was that all about?” said Ron, wip­ing sweat off his face . Some­thing was shin­ing on the wall ahead .
Ron and Hermione grabbed Har­ry al­most, and they inched to­ward the mes­sage, eyes fixed on a dark shad­ow be­neath it . Mrs. Nor­ris, the care­tak­er’s cat, was hang­ing by her tail from the torch brack­et . For a few sec­onds, they didn’t move . Then Ron said, “Let’s get out
Dra­co Mal­foy had pushed to the front of the crowd, his cold eyes alive, his usu­al­ly blood­less face flushed, as he grinned at the sight of the hang­ing, im­mo­bile cat . Then he saw Mrs. Nor­ris and fell back, clutch­ing his face in hor­ror . “You! You’ve mur­dered my cat!” he screeched 
Lock­hart looked ex­cit­ed and im­por­tant, hur­ried af­ter Dum­ble­dore . Pro­fes­sor McG­ona­gall was bent al­most as close, her eyes nar­rowed. Snape loomed be­hind them, half in shad­ow, wearing a most pe­cu­liar ex­pres­sion .
Lock­hart’s com­ments were punc­tu­at­ed by Filch’s dry, rack­ing sobs . He was slumped in a chair by the desk, un­able to look at Mrs. Nor­ris, his face in his hands . Har­ry couldn’t help feel­ing a bit sor­ry for him­self If Dum­ble­dore be­lieved Filch, he would be ex­pelled
Lock­hart stopped abrupt­ly in the mid­dle of count­ing the num­ber of murders he had pre­vent­ed . “Why’s she all — all stiff and frozen?” “She has been Pet­ri­fied,” said Dum­ble­dore firm­ly .
“We don’t think ghosts pro­vid­ed food fit for liv­ing peo­ple at their par­ties,” said Snape . “We weren’t hun­gry,” said Ron loud­ly as his stom­ach gave a huge rum­ble .
“I per­son­al­ly feel he should be tak­en off the Gryffind­or Quid­ditch team un­til he is ready to tell us the whole sto­ry,” Pro­fes­sor McG­ona­gall sharply . “Re­al–ly, Severus,” said Pro­Fess­er McG­one­galle sharply, “There is no rea­son to stop the boy play
“I must have done it a hun­dred times. I could whip up a Man­drake Restora­tive Draught in my sleep —” Snape ici­ly said . “You may go,” Dumble­dore said to Har­ry, Ron, and Hermione .
A Squib is some­one who was born in­to a wiz­ard­ing fam­ily but hasn’t got any mag­ic pow­ers . It would ex­plain a lot. Like why he hates stu­dents so much.” Ron gave a sat­is­fied smile .
Filch kept it fresh in ev­ery­one’s minds by pac­ing the spot where Mrs. Nor­ris had been at­tacked . Har­ry had seen him scrub­bing the mes­sage on the wall with Mrs. Skow­er’s All- Pur­pose Mag­ical Mess Re­mover, but to no ef­fect; the words still gleamed as bright­ly . Gin­ny Weasley seemed very dis
Har­ry and Ron had been held back in Po­tions, where Snape had made him stay be­hind to scrape tube­worms off the desk . Justin Finch- Fletch­ley, the Huf­flepuff boy from Her­bol­ogy, com­ing to­ward him . He found Ron at the back of the li­brary, mea­sur­ing his home­work .
“I think she’s trying to read the whole li­brary be­fore Christ­mas.” Har­ry told Ron about Justin Finch- Fletch­ley run­ning away from him . Hermione looked ir­ri­ta­ble and at last seemed ready to talk to them . “All the copies of Hog­warts, A His­to­ry have been tak­en out,” she said .
Ron and Hermione led the way to His­to­ry of Mag­ic, bick­er­ing . Pro­fes­sor Binns, who taught it, was their on­ly ghost teach­er . He had sim­ply got up to teach one day and left his body be­hind him in an arm­chair in front of the staff room fire .
Dean Thomas jerked out of his trance; Laven­der Brown’s head came up off her arms . Neville Long­bot­tom’s el­bow slipped off his desk . Pro­fes­sor Binns blinked in his dry, wheezy voice . “My sub­ject is His­to­ry of Mag­ic,” he said .
Hous­es are named af­ter them: Go­dric Gryffind­or, Hel­ga Huf­flepuff, Rowe­na Raven­claw, and Salazar Slytherin . They built this cas­tle to­geth­er, far from pry­ing Muggle eyes, for it was an age when mag­ic was feared by com­mon peo­ple .
Slytherin dis­liked tak­ing stu­dents of Muggle parent­age, be­liev­ing them to be un­trust­wor­thy . “Re­li­able his­tor­ical sources tell us this much,” Binns said .
The heir alone would be able to un­seal the Cham­ber of Se­crets, un­leash the hor­ror with­in, and use it to purge the school of all who were un­wor­thy to study mag­ic . There was un­ease in the air as ev­ery­one con­tin­ued to watch him, hop­ing for more . “The whole thing is ar­rant non­sense,
“If a long suc­ces­sion of Hog­warts head­mas­ters and head­mistress­es haven’t found the thing —” Pro­fes­sor Binns piped up Par­vati Patil, “you’d prob­ably have to use Dark Mag­ic doesn’t mean he can’t, Miss Pen­nyfeath­er,” snapped Pro­Fessor binns . “I
Har­ry had nev­er told Ron and Hermione that the Sort­ing Hat had se­ri­ous­ly con­sid­ered putting him in Slytherin . He could re­mem­ber, as though it were yes­ter­day, the small voice that had spo­ken in his ear when he’d placed the hat on his head a year be­fore . Col­in Creevy went past as they were
Col­in was so small he couldn’t fight against the tide of peo­ple bear­ing him to­ward the Great Hall . “That I’m Slytherin’s heir, I ex­pect,” said Har­ry . The crowd thinned and they were able to climb the next stair­case with­out dif­fi­cul­ty .
Hermione was point­ing at the top­most pane, where around twen­ty spi­ders were scut­tling, ap­parent­ly fighting to get through a small crack . A long, sil­very thread was dan­gling like a rope, as though they had all climbed it in their hur­ry to get out­side .
“It’s not fun­ny,” said Ron, fierce­ly . He broke off, shud­der­ing . Hermione was ob­vi­ous­ly still trying­ing not to laugh.
Un­der a large, cracked, and spot­ted mir­ror were a row of chipped sinks . The floor was damp and re­flect­ed the dull light giv­en off by the stubs of a few can­dles, burn­ing low in their hold­ers . Hermione put her fin­gers to her lips and set off to­ward the end stall .
“No one wants to up­set me! That’s a good one!” howled Myr­tle . “Be­cause a cat was at­tacked right out­side your front door on Hal­loween.” “Did you see any­one near here that night?” said Har­ry .
Per­cy swelled in a man­ner that re­mind­ed Har­ry force­ful­ly of Mrs. Weasley . “Get — away — from — there —” Per­ry said, strid­ing to­ward them .
Har­ry, Ron, and Hermione chose seats as far as pos­si­ble from Per­cy . When he reached ab­sent­ly for his wand to re­move the smudges, it ig­nit­ed the parch­ment . Ron slammed The Stan­dard Book of Spells, Grade 2 shut .
“Look at his fam­ily,” said Har­ry, clos­ing his books . “They could’ve had the key to the Cham­ber of Se­crets for cen­turies!” said Ron. “I sup­pose it’s pos­si­ble...”
“It trans­forms you in­to some­body else. Think about it!” mut­tered Ron . “This Polyjuice stuff sounds a bit dodgy to me,” said Hermione . You need­ed a signed note of permis­sion from a teach­er .
Pro­fes­sor Lock­hart had not brought live crea­tures to class . In­stead, he read pas­sages from his books to them, and some­times reen­act­ed some of the more dra­mat­ic bits . He usu­al­ly picked Har­ry to help him with these re­con­struc­tions .
Har­ry pounced — ex­act­ly — slammed him to the floor . With one hand, I screwed up my re­main­ing strength and per­formed the im­mense­ly-com­plex Ho­mor­phus Charm . He let out a piteous moan — go on, Harry — high­er than that — good — the fur van­ished . The bell rang and Lock­hart got
“Er — Pro­fes­sor Lock­hart?” She held out the piece of pa­per, her hand shak­ing slight­ly . “I want­ed to — to get this book out of the li­brary. Just for back­ground read­ing.” Hermione tak­ing the note and smil­ing wide­ly at her .
Har­ry made an in­dis­tinct noise in his throat and then hurried off af­ter Ron and Hermione . “He is not a brain­less git,” said Ron shril­ly as they half ran to­ward the li­brary . Madam Pince was a thin, ir­ri­ta­ble wom­an who looked like an un­fed vul­ture .
Madam Pince held the note up to the light, as though de­ter­mined to de­tect a forgery, but it passed the test . She stalked away be­tween the lofty shelves and re­turned sev­er­al min­utes lat­er car­ry­ing a large and moldy-looking­ing book . They left, try­ing not to walk too quick­ly or look too guilty .
The Polyjuice Po­tion was dec­orat­ed with draw­ings of peo­ple . Har­ry sin­cere­ly hoped the artist had imag­ined the looks of in­tense pain on their faces . “This is the most com­pli­cated” po­tion I’ve ev­er seen .
“What d’you mean, a bit of who­ev­er we’re chang­ing in­to? I’m drink­ing noth­ing with Crabbe’s toe­nails in it —” Hermione con­tin­ued as though she hadn’t heard him . “We don’t have to wor­ry about that yet, though, be­cause we add those bits last...” Ron turned, speech­less,
“I’d say it’d be ready in about a month, if we can get all the in­gre­di­ents.” “A month?” said Ron. “Mal­foy could have at­tacked half the Muggle- borns in the school by then!” He added swift­ly, “But it’s the best plan we’ve got, so full steam ahead, I say.” Har­ry woke ear­ly and lay for a while thinking about the 
Ron and Hermione came hur­ry­ing over to wish Har­ry good luck as he en­tered the lock­er rooms . The team pulled on their scarlet Gryffind­or robes, then sat down to lis­ten to Wood’s usu­al pre-match pep talk . “Slytherin has bet­ter brooms than us,” he be­gan .
Madam Hooch asked Flint and Wood to shake hands, which they did, giv­ing each oth­er threat­en­ing stares . Har­ry flew high­er than any of them, squint­ing around for the Snitch . “All right there, Scar­head?” yelled Mal­foy, shoot­ing un­der­neath him as though to show off the speed of his broom .
Har­ry put on a burst of speed and zoomed to­ward the oth­er end of the pitch . He could hear the Bludger whistling along be­hind him . It was their job to try and un­seat as many peo­ple as pos­si­ble .
Fred and George were flying so close to him on ei­ther side that Har­ry could see noth­ing at all ex­cept their flail­ing arms . “Some­one’s — tam­pered— with— this — Bludger —” Fred grunt­ed, swing­ing his bat with all his might at it . Wood had ob­vi­ous­ly got the mes­sage .
Madam Hooch was walk­ing to the Bludgers . Wood looked at the de­ter­mined look on Har­ry’s face . “This is all your fault,” said George .
High­er and high­er Har­ry climbed; looped and swooped, spi­raled, zigzagged, and rolled . Slight­ly dizzy, he nev­er­the­less kept his eyes wide open, rain was speck­ling his glass­es and ran up his nos­trils . He knew he must look very stupid, but the rogue Bludger was heavy and couldn’t change di­rec
Har­ry hung in midair, not dar­ing to speed to­ward Mal­foy in case he looked up and saw the Snitch. WHAM. He had stayed still a sec­ond too long. The Bludger had hit him at last, smashed in­to his el­bow . Dim­ly, dazed by the sear­ing pain in his arm, he slid side­ways on his rain-drenched broom
Lock­hart heard a fa­mil­iar click­ing noise near­by . “Why can’t I just go to the hos­pi­tal wing?” said Har­ry .
“Great cap­ture, Har­ry, re­al­ly spec­tac­ular, your best yet, I’d say —” Lock­hart said . It was still putting up a ter­rif­ic fight .
Lock­hart hadn’t mend­ed Har­ry’s bones. He had re­moved them . “You will be able to, cer­tain­ly, but it will be painful,” said Madam Pom­frey grim­ly .
Madam Pom­frey was holding a large bot­tle of some­thing la­beled Skele- Gro . It burned Har­ry’s mouth and throat as it went down, mak­ing him cough and splut­ter . “We won, though,” said Ron, a grin breaking across his face .
“I want to know how he fixed that Bludger,” said Har­ry . “If it’s got bits of Slytherins in it? You’ve got to be jok­ing,” said Ron . The door of the hospi­tal wing burst open at that mo­ment .
Har­ry woke sud­den­ly in the pitch black­ness and gave a small yelp of pain . Then, with a thrill of hor­ror, he re­al­ized that some­one was spong­ing his fore­head in the dark . “Get off!” he said loud­ly, and then, “Dob­by!” The house- elf’s gog­gling ten­nis ball eyes were
Dob­by was rock­ing back­ward and for­ward, shak­ing his ug­ly head . “You near­ly got Ron and me ex­pelled,” he said fierce­ly .
Dob­by wants Har­ry Pot­ter sent home, grievous­ly in­jured, than re­main here sir . “I don’t sup­pose you’re go­ing to tell me why you want­ed me sent home!” said Harry an­gri­ly .
Dob­by froze, hor­rorstruck, then grabbed Har­ry Pot­ter’s wa­ter jug from his bed­side ta­ble and cracked it over his own head, top­pling out of sight . A sec­ond lat­er, he crawled back on­to the bed, cross-eyed, mut­ter­ing, “Bad Dobbby, very bad Dobby...” . Do
“I’m not Mug­gle- born — how can I be in dan­ger from the Cham­ber?” Har­ry whis­pered . “Who’s opened it? Who opened it last time?” squealed the elf, his eyes huge in the dark .
Dob­by sud­den­ly froze, his bat ears quiv­er­ing . There were foot­steps com­ing down the pas­sage­way out­side . He slumped back in­to bed, his eyes on the dark door­way to the hos­pi­tal wing . Pro­fes­sor McG­ona­gall ap­peared a sec­ond lat­er, car­
Har­ry’s stom­ach gave a hor­ri­ble lurch . Slow­ly and care­ful­ly, he raised him­self a few inch­es so he could look at the stat­ue on the bed . It was Col­in Creevey. His eyes were wide and his hands were stuck up in front of him .
“All melt­ed...” Madam Pom­frey clapped a hand to her mouth . Pro­fes­sor McG­ona­gall stared at Dum­ble­dore . “The ques­tion is not who,” said Har­ry, his eyes on Col­in .
Har­ry hur­ried off to Gryffind­or Tow­er to look for Ron and Hermione . He looked in far bet­ter spir­its than last time they’d met . “No, I haven’t,” said Per­cy, his smile fad­ing.
An old caul­dron perched on the toi­let, and a crack­ling from un­der the rim told Har­ry they had lit a fire be­neath it . “We’ve de­cid­ed this is the safest place to hide it,” Ron ex­plained . The soon­er we get a con­fes­sion out of Mal­foy, the bet­ter,” snarled Ron .
Ron and Hermione looked up, amazed. Har­ry told them ev­ery­thing Dob­by had told him . “This set­tles it,” said Ron in a tri­umphant voice .
Col­in Creevey had been at­tacked and was now ly­ing as though dead in the hos­pi­tal wing . The first years were now mov­ing around the cas­tle in tight- knit groups . They were tak­ing turns cov­er­ing them­selves with fur or boils and jumping out at her from be­hind statues .
Har­ry, Ron, and Hermione were col­lecting names of those who would be staying at school for Christ­mas . They had heard that Mal­foy was staying, which struck them as very sus­pi­cious . The hol­idays would be the per­fect time to use the Polyjuice Po­tion .
Snape’s Po­tions class was about as safe as pok­ing a sleep­ing drag­on in the eye . Twen­ty caul­drons stood steam­ing be­tween the wood­en desks . Dra­co Mal­foy kept flick­ing puffer- fish eyes at Ron and Har­ry, who knew they would get de­ten­tion faster than you could say “Un­fair”
Goyle’s po­tion ex­plod­ed, show­er­ing the whole class . Mal­foy got a face­ful and his nose be­gan to swell like a bal­loon . Har­ry saw Hermione slip qui­et­ly in­to Snape’s of­fice . “Si­lence! SI­LENCE!” Snape roared .
Snape swept over to Goyle’s caul­dron and scooped out the twist­ed black re­mains of the fire­work . Har­ry ar­ranged his face in­to what he hoped was a puz­zled ex­pres­sion . “He knew it was me,” Ron told Ron and Hermione as they hur­ried back to Moan­ing Myrtle's bath­room .
“I wouldn’t mind du­el­ing lessons; they might come in handy one of these days...” said Ron, but he read the sign with in­ter­est . Har­ry and Hermione were all for it, so at eight o’clock they hur­ried back to Great Hall .
Pro­fes­sor Dumble­dore has grant­ed me per­mis­sion to start this lit­tle du­el­ing club, to train you all in case you ev­er need to de­fend your­selves as I my­self have done on count­less oc­ca­sions . Lock­hart and Snape turned to face each oth­er and bowed; at least, lock­hart did
Lock­hart swung his wands above their heads and point­ed them at their op­po­nent; Snape cried: “Ex­pel­liar­mus!” There was a daz­zling flash of scarlet light . He flew back­ward off the stage, smashed in­to the wall, and slid down it to sprawl on the floor .
Pos­si­bly Lock­hart had no­ticed, be­cause he said, “Enough demon­strat­ing! I’m go­ing to come amongst you now and put you all in­to pairs” Har­ry moved au­to­mat­ical­ly to­ward Hermione. “Mr. Mal­foy, come over here. Let’s see what you make of the fa­mous Pot­ter. And
Hrry and Mal­foy bare­ly in­clined their heads, not tak­ing their eyes off each oth­er . He hit Har­ry so hard he felt as though he’d been hit over the head with a saucepan . A jet of sil­ver light hit Mal­Foy and he dou­bled up, wheez­ing .
Har­ry hung back, with a vague feel­ing it would be unsport­ing to be­witch Mal­foy while he was on the floor, but this was a mis­take . “Stop! Stop!” screamed Lock­hart, but Snape took charge. “Fi­nite In­can­tatem!” he shout­ed . A haze of green­ish smoke was hov­er­ing over the scene .
Lock­hart glanced at Snape, whose black eyes glint­ed, and looked quick­ly away . “Let’s have a vol­unteer pair — Long­bot­tom and Finch- Fletch­ley, how about you,” said Snape .
Snape smirked as Lock­hart quick­ly picked it up, say­ing, “Whoops — my wand is a lit­tle overex­cit­ed —” Snape moved clos­er to Mal­foy, bent down, and whis­pered some­thing in his ear . “You wish,” said Har­ry out of the cor­ner of his mouth. “Three — two — one — go
En­raged, hiss­ing fu­ri­ous­ly, it slith­ered straight to­ward Justin Finch- Fletch­ley and raised it­self again, fangs ex­posed, poised to strike . Har­ry wasn’t even aware of de­cid­ing to do it . He knew the snake wouldn’t at­tack any­one now, though how he knew it, he couldn’t have ex­plained .
Snape was looking­ing at Har­ry in an un­ex­pect­ed way . He was dim­ly aware of an omi­nous mut­ter­ing all around the walls . Then he felt a tug­ging on the back of his robes . “Come on,” said Ron’s voice in his ear .
“I know,” said Har­ry, start­ing to feel quite an­gry . “What’s wrong with ev­ery­one? Lis­ten, if I hadn’t told that snake not to at­tack Justin —” “Oh, that’s what you said to it?” said Ron .
Har­ry couldn’t see what was so ter­ri­ble . “D’you want to tell me what’s wrong with stop­ping a mas­sive snake bit­ing off Justin’s head?” he said. “It mat­ters,” Hermione said .
Har­ry tried to say some­thing in Parsel­tongue . It seemed he had to be face-to- face with a snake to do it . But the Sort­ing Hat want­ed to put you in Slytherin, don’t you re­mem­ber? He’d see Justin the next day in Her­bol­ogy .
“Go and find Justin if it’s so im­por­tant to you,” says Har­ry . The cas­tle was dark­er than it usu­al­ly was in day­time be­cause of the thick, swirling gray snow at ev­ery win­dow . Pro­fes­sor McG­ona­gall was shout­ing at some­one who turned his friend in­to a bad­ger .
Justin ac­tu­al­ly told him he’d been down for Eton . “You def­inite­ly think it is Pot­ter, then, Ernie?” said a girl with blonde pig­tails anx­ious­ly . There was some heavy mur­mur­ing at this .
Ernie low­ered his voice mys­te­ri­ous­ly, the Huf­flepuffs bent clos­er . Har­ry edged near­er so that he could catch Ernie’s words . “No one knows how he sur­vived that at­tack by You- Know- Who.” He dropped his voice un­til it was bare­ly more than a whis­per .
“What do you want with him?” said Ernie in a qua­ver­ing voice . “I want­ed to tell him what re­al­ly hap­pened with that snake at the Du­el­ing Club,” said Har­ry .
Har­ry blun­dered up the cor­ri­dor, bare­ly notic­ing where he was going­ing . The re­sult was that he walked in­to some­thing very large and sol­id . Ha­grid’s face was en­tire­ly hid­den by a wool­ly, snow-cov­ered bal­acla­va . “Why aren’t yeh in
Har­ry couldn’t bring him­self to re­peat what Ernie had been saying about him . “Id bet­ter get go­ing, Ha­grid, it’s Trans­fig­ura­tion next and I’ve got to pick up my books.” He walked off, his mind still full .
Nick, no longer pearly- white and trans­parent, but black and smoky, float­ing im­mo­bile and hor­izon­tal, six inch­es off the floor . His head was half off and his face wore an ex­pres­sion of shock iden­ti­cal to Justin’s . He looked­wild­ly up and down the de­sert­ed cor­ri­dor and saw
Peeves stopped, halfway through a midair som­er­sault . He flipped the right way up, filled his lungs and, be­fore Har­ry could stop him, screamed, “AT­TACK!” Crash — crash, crash — door af­ter door flew open along the cor­ri­dor and peo­ple flood­ed out . Pro­fes­sor McG­ona­gall
Pro­fes­sor McG­ona­gall con­jured a large fan out of thin air, which she gave to Ernie with in­struc­tions to waft Near­ly Head­less Nick up the stairs . “This way, Pot­ter,” she said curt­ly . Peeves was bob­bing over­head, now grin­ing wicked­ly, sur­vey­ing the scene .
Har­ry and Pro­fes­sor McG­ona­gall stepped on­to it . They rose up­ward in cir­cles and high­er, un­til at last, slight­ly dizzy . This must be where Dum­ble­dore lived .
Har­ry hes­itat­ed. He cast a wary eye around the sleep­ing witch­es and wiz­ards on the walls . It was much too large and slipped down over his eyes, just as it had done the last time he’d put it on .
“You’ve been won­dering whether I put you in the right House,” said the hat smart­ly . Har­ry’s heart leapt — “you would have done well in Slytherin —” Har­RY’s stom­ach plum­met­ed . It hung limply in his hand, grub­by and fad­ing sick. “You're wrong,” he said aloud to the still and silent 
Har­ry looked fever­ish­ly around in case there was a glass of wa­ter some­where but couldn’t see one . The bird, mean­while, had be­come a fire­ball; it gave one loud shriek and next sec­ond there was noth­ing but a smoul­dering pile of ash on the floor . “He’s been look­ing dread­ful for days; I’ve been telling him to
Har­ry nev­er had time, sir . Ha­grid went rant­ing on, wav­ing the roost­er around in his ag­ita­tion . “Oh. I’ll wait out­side then, Head­mas­ter.”
Har­ry wait­ed ner­vous­ly while Dum­ble­dore con­sid­ered him . He thought of Mal­foy shout­ing, “You’ll be next, Mud­bloods!” and of the Polyjuice Po­tion sim­mer­ing away in Moan­ing Myr­tle’s bath­room . Then he thought of the dis­em­bodied voice he had heard twice .
Near­ly Head­less Nick's fate seemed to wor­ry peo­ple most . What ter­ri­ble pow­er could harm some­one who was al­ready dead? Crabbe and Goyle had signed up to stay over the hol­idays .
Fred and George thought the idea of his be­ing Slytherin’s heir was quite lu­di­crous . But their an­tics seemed to be ag­gra­vat­ing Dra­co Mal­foy . “Not for long,” said Hermione in a sat­is­fied tone .
Har­ry found it peace­ful, rather than gloomy, and en­joyed the fact that they had the run of Gryffind­or Tow­er . Fred, George, and Gin­ny had cho­sen to stay at school rather than vis­it Bill in Egypt with Mr. and Mrs. Weasley . He had al­ready told them pompous­ly that he was on­ly staying over Christ­mas be­cause it was his du­t
Hed­wig swooped in­to the room, car­rying a pack­age in her beak . Har­ry nib­bled his ear in an af­fec­tion­ate sort of way, which was a far bet­ter present than the one that she had brought him . The Durs­leys had sent him a tooth­pick and a note telling him to find out whether he’d be able to stay at Hog­
Har­ry’s Christ­mas presents were far more sat­is­fac­to­ry . Ron had giv­en him a book called Fly­ing with the Can­nons . He read her card with a fresh surge of guilt, think­ing about Mr. Weasley’s car . No one, even some­one dread­ing tak­ing Polyjuice Po­tion lat­er, could fail .
The Great Hall looked mag­nif­icent . Not on­ly were there a dozen frost- cov­ered Christ­mas trees and thick stream­ers of hol­ly and mistle­toe criss­cross­ing the ceil­ing .
“We still need a bit of the peo­ple you’re chang­ing in­to,” said Hermione mat­ter- of- fact­ly . “I’ve got it all worked out,” she went on smooth­ly, ig­nor­ing Har­ry’s and Ron’s stu­pe­fied faces . She held up two plump choco­late cakes .
Har­ry and Ron lurked in the de­sert­ed en­trance hall af­ter Christ­mas tea . They waited for Crabbe and Goyle who had re­mained alone at the Slytherin ta­ble .
Har­ry yanked out a cou­ple of the bristles that cov­ered Goyle’s forehead and Ron pulled out sev­er­al of Crabbe’s hairs . Then, still stunned at what they had just done, they sprint­ed up to Moan­ing Myr­tle's bath­room . “Hermione?” They heard the scrape of the lock .
“I’m sure I’ve done ev­ery­thing right,” said Hermione . “Now what?” Ron whis­pered. “We sep­arate it in­to three glass­es and add the hairs.” “Bet it tastes dis­gust­ing.”
Goyle’s turned the kha­ki col­or of a booger, Crabbe’s a dark, murky brown . “Good think­ing,” said Ron, un­lock­ing the door. “Ready?” came Ron’s and Hermione’s voic­es .
im­me­di­ate­ly, his in­sides start­ed writhing as though he’d just swal­lowed live snakes — dou­bled up, he won­dered whether he was going to be sick — then a burn­ing sen­sa­tion spread rapidly from his stom­ach to the very ends of his fin­gers and toes . next, bring­ing him gasp­
Har­ry lay face­down on the stone- cold floor, lis­ten­ing to Myrtle gur­gling mo­rose­ly in the end toi­let . His large hand trem­bling, pulled off his old robes, pulled on the spare ones, and laced up Goyle’s boat­like shoes . He reached up to brush his hair out of his eyes and met on­ly the short growth of wiry bristles, low
“We’ve still got to find out where the Slytherin com­mon room is. I on­ly hope we can find some­one to follow...” Ron banged on Hermione’s door . “No — re­al­ly — I don’t think I’ll come. You two hur­ry up, you’re wast­ing time,” Ron said .
Har­ry and Ron hur­ried down the stone steps in­to the dark­ness . The labyrinthine pas­sages were de­sert­ed . Af­ter a quar­ter of an hour, just when they were getting des­per­ate, they heard a sudden move­ment ahead .
Per­cy looked af­front­ed. “I’m not safe to go wan­dering around dark cor­ri­dors these days.” “Well, get off to your dor­mi­to­ries,” said Ron stern­ly . “You are,” said Dra­co Mal­foy, draw­ing him­self up .
Har­ry and Ron hur­ried af­ter Mal­foy, who said as they turned in­to the next pas­sage, “That Pe­ter Weasley —” “Per­cy,” Ron cor­rect­ed him au­to­mat­ical­ly . “I’ve no­ticed he sneak­ing around a lot late­ly. And I bet I know what he’s up to. He’s going to catch
“Wait here,” said Mal­foy to Har­ry and Ron, mo­tion­ing them to a pair of emp­ty chairs set back from the fire . “I’ll go and get it my fa­ther’s just sent it to me —” Mal­Foy came back a minute lat­er, holding what looked like a news­pa­per clip­ping. “That’ll give you a laugh,” he said .
“Don’t you think it’s fun­ny?” said Har­ry bleak­ly . “Arthur Weasley loves Mug­gles so much he should snap his wand in half and go and join them,” said Mal­foy scorn­fully .
Mal­foy started tak­ing pic­tures with an imag­inary cam­era and did a cru­el but ac­cu­rate im­pres­sion of Col­in: “Pot­ter, can I have your pic­ture, Pot­ter?” he dropped his hands and looked at Har­ry and Ron . Per­haps Crabbe and Goyle were al­ways slow on the up­take .
“You know I haven’t, Goyle, how many times do I have to tell you?” snapped Mal­foy . “I know one thing — last time the Cham­ber of Se­crets was opened, a Mud­blood died . So I bet it’s a mat­ter of time be­fore one of them’s killed this time...I hope it’S Granger,” he said with rel­ish .
Har­ry tried to force Goyle’s dull face in­to a look of con­cern . “Luck­ily, they didn’t find much. Fa­ther’s got some very valu­able Dark Arts stuff.” Mal­foy looked at him. Even his hair was turn­ing red .
Har­ry and Ron sprint­ed the length of the Slytherin com­mon room . They crashed up the steps in­to the dark en­trance hall . He checked his face in the cracked mir­ror. He was back to nor­mal .
Moan­ing Myr­tle glid­ed sud­den­ly through the stall door . “Ooooooh, wait till you see,” Hermione said .
The VERY SE­CRET DI­ARY Hermione re­mained in the hos­pi­tal wing for sev­er­al weeks . Madam Pom­frey took out her cur­tains again and placed them around her bed . Har­ry and Ron went to vis­it her ev­ery evening to spare her shame of be­ing seen with a fur­ry face .
Ron looked up at Hermione, dis­gust­ed . “Is Lock­hart the smarmi­est bloke you’ve ev­er met, or what?” Ron said to Har­ry as they left the in­fir­mary and start­ing up the stairs .
Filch had clear­ly been man­ning his usu­al look­out post . A great flood of wa­ter stretched over half the cor­ri­dor . It looked as though it was still seep­ing from un­der the door of Moan­ing Myr­tle’s bath­room . “Now what’s up with her?” said Ron .
“Why would I throw some­thing else at me?” Har­ry wad­ed across to her stall . “I mean, it’d just go right through you, wouldn’t it?” He had said the wrong thing .
“You’d be sur­prised,” said Ron, who was looking­ing ap­pre­hen­sive­ly at the book . The lit­tle book lay on the floor, non­de­script and sog­gy . “All right, I’ve got the point,” said Har­ry .
Aun­tie Ma­bel’s birth­day, or den­tist, half past three . There wasn’t the faintest trace of writ­ing on any of them . “He nev­er wrote in it,” said Ron cu­ri­ous­ly .
“I wish I knew why some­one did try to chuck it,” said Har­ry . “Maybe he got thir­ty O.W.L.s or saved a teach­er from the gi­ant squid. Maybe he mur­dered Myr­tle; that would’ve done ev­ery­one a fa­vor ...” said Hermione .
T. M. Rid­dle got spe­cial award for catch­ing the Heir of Slytherin . His di­ary would prob­ably tell us ev­ery­thing . “That’s a brilliant the­ory, Hermione,” said Ron .
Rid­dle’s gold shield was tucked away in a cor­ner cabinet . It didn’t car­ry de­tails of why it had been giv­en to him . The fact was that even though he knew the di­ary was blank, he kept ab­sent­mind­ing it up and turn­ing the pages, as though it were a sto­ry he want­ed to fin­ish . But Har­
The sun had now be­gun to shine weak­ly on Hogwarts again . There had been no more at­tacks since those on Justin and Near­ly Head­less Nick . Madam Pom­frey was pleased to report that the Mandrakes were be­com­ing moody and se­cre­tive, mean­ing that they were fast leav­ing child­hood .
Gilderoy Lock­hart seemed to think he him­self had made the at­tacks stop . He over­heard him telling Pro­fes­sor McG­ona­gall so while the Gryffind­ors were lin­ing up for Trans­fig­ura­tion . “I don’t think there’ll be any more trou­ble, Min­er­va,” he said, tap­ing his nose know­ing­ly and wink
Lock­hart clapped his hands and through the doors to the en­trance hall marched a dozen surly-looking dwarfs . Not just any dwarfs, how­ev­er.
Pro­fes­sor Snape was looking­ing as though the first per­son to ask him for a Love Po­tion would be force- fed poi­son . “Please, Hermione, tell me you weren’t one of the forty- six, said Ron as they left the Great Hall for their first les­son, Ron . ‘Oy, you! ‘Arry Pot­ter!” shouted a grim-looking dwarf .
Har­ry cut his way through crowd by kick­ing peo­ple’s shins . “Not here!” grunt­ed the dwarf, grab­bing hold of Harry’s bag and pulling him back . With a loud rip­ping noise, his bag split in two. His books, wand, parch­ment, and quill spilled on­to the floor .
Har­ry tried to make a run for it, but the dwarf seized him around the knees and brought him crash­ing to the floor . “Right,” he said, sitting on Harry’s an­kles. “Here is your singing valen­tine: His eyes are as green as a fresh pick­led toad, His hair is as dark . He’s re­al­ly di­vine, The hero who con­quered the Dark Lord Har­
Gin­ny was star­ing from the di­ary to Har­ry, look­ing ter­ri­fied . “Hand it over, Mal­foy,” said Per­cy stern­ly . He pulled out his wand and shout­ed, “Ex­pel­liar­mus!” .
All his oth­er books were drenched in scar­let ink . The di­ary, how­ev­er, was as clean as it had been be­fore the ink bot­tle had smashed all over it . He tried to point this out to Ron, but Ron was hav­ing trou­ble with his wand again . This was part­ly be­cause he wanted­ed to ex­am­ine Rid­dle
“What do you mean?” Har­ry scrawled, blot­ting the page in his ex­cite­ment . “I’m at Hog­warts, and hor­ri­ble stuff’s been hap­pen­ing. Do you know any­thing about the Cham­ber of Se­crets?” He wrote quick­ly.
In my fifth year, the Cham­ber was opened and the mon­ster at­tacked sev­er­al stu­dents, fi­nal­ly killing one . The Head­mas­ter, Pro­fes­sor Dippet, ashamed that such a thing had hap­pened at Hog­warts, for­bade me to tell the truth . A sto­ry was giv­en out that the girl had died in a freak 
Har­ry paused for a frac­tion of a sec­ond and wrote two let­ters . He saw that the lit­tle square for June thir­teenth seemed to have turned in­to a minis­cule tele­vi­sion screen . His hands trem­bling slight­ly, raised the book to press his eye against the win­dow .
Har­ry drew near­er to his desk and stam­mered, “Er — I’ll just go, shall I?” Still the wiz­ard ig­nored him . “Sorry I disturbed you. I'll go now,” he half- shout­ed . The sky out­side the win­dow was ru­by red; it seemed to be sun­set .
Har­ry was lit­tle more than a phan­tom, com­plete­ly in­vis­ible to the peo­ple of fifty years ago . “You want­ed to see me, Pro­fes­sor Dip­pet?” said Rid­dle . He looked ner­vous, grip­ing his hands to­geth­er very tight­ly .
Dip­per clucked his tongue sym­pa­thet­ical­ly . “You mean all these attacks, sir?” said Rid­dle, and Har­ry’s heart leapt . He moved clos­er, scared of miss­ing any­thing .
Dip­pet sank back, look­ing faint­ly dis­ap­point­ed . “You may go, Tom...” Rid­dle slid off his chair and slouched out of the room . Har­ry was sure it was the same sort of “no” that he him­self had giv­en Dum­ble­dore .
Rid­dle saw him walk out of sight and head­ed straight down the stone steps to the dun­geon in which Har­ry had Po­tions with Snape . Riddle pushed the door al­most closed, but Harry could on­ly just see him, standing stock­ still by the door, watch­ing the pas­sage out­side .
Rid­dle sud­den­ly jumped around the cor­ner . He could see the dark out­line of a huge boy who was crouch­ing in front of an open door, a very large box next to it . The boy slammed the door shut and stood up . “I don’t think you meant to kill any­one.” “I sup­pose you just let it out for ex­er­cise and—” “It 
“Come on, Rubeus,” said Rid­dle, mov­ing yet clos­er . “The dead girl’s par­ents will be here to­mor­row. The least Hog­warts can do is make sure that the thing that killed their daugh­ter is slaugh­tered...” “It wasn’t him!” roared the boy, his voice echo­ing in the dark pas­sage .
Har­ry, Ron, and Hermione had al­ways known that Ha­grid had an un­for­tu­nate lik­ing for large and mon­strous crea­tures . He had tried to raise a drag­on in his lit­tle wood­en house, and it would be a long time be­fore they for­got the gi­ant, three- head­ed dog he’d chris­tened “Fl
Ron and Hermione made him re­count what he’d seen, un­til he was sick of telling them . “Maybe it was some oth­er mon­ster that was at­tack­ing peo­ple...” Ron asked dul­ly .
'Hel­lo, Ha­grid. Tell us, have you been set­ting any­thing mad and hairy loose in the cas­tle late­ly?', said Ron . It was now near­ly four months since Justin and Near­ly Head­less Nick had been Pet­ri­fied .
Neville Long­bot­tom had been sent let­ters from all the witch­es and wiz­ards in his fam­ily, all giv­ing him dif­fer­ent ad­vice on what to choose . Dean Thomas, who, like Har­ry, had grown up with Muggles, end­ed up clos­ing his eyes and jab­bing his wand at the list, then pick­ing the sub
Har­ry felt he was re­al­ly good at Quid­ditch . In the end, he chose the same sub­jects as Ron, feeling he’d have some­one friend to help him .
Wood was in­sist­ing on team prac­tices ev­ery night af­ter din­ner . He went up to his dor­mi­to­ry to drop off his broom­stick feel­ing Gryffind­or’s chances for the Quid­ditch cup had nev­er been bet­ter . But his cheer­ful mood didn’t last long .
“Some­one’s been looking­ing for some­thing,” said Ron . “Rid­dle’s di­ary’s gone,” he said in an un­der­tone to Ron. “What?” Har­ry jerked his head to­ward the dor­mi­to­ry door and Ron fol­lowed him out. They hur­ried down to the Gryffind­or com­mon room, which was half- emp­ty .
Har­ry had been star­ing down the packed Gryffind­or ta­ble . Ron and Hermione knew why Ha­grid had been ex­pelled fifty years ago? He didn’t want to be the one who brought it all up again .
Har­ry raced up to Gryffind­or Tow­er, col­lect­ed his Nim­bus Two Thou­sand, and joined the large crowd swarm­ing across the grounds . The Huf­flepuffs, who played in ca­nary yel­low, were standing in a hud­dle, hav­ing a last-minute dis­cus­sion of tac­tics .
Pro­fes­sor McG­ona­gall ig­nored him and con­tin­ued to shout through her mega­phone . There were boos and shouts. Oliv­er Wood, look­ing dev­as­tat­ed . “We’ve got to play — the cup — Gryffind­or —” Har­ry said .
Har­ry and Ron fol­lowed Pro­fes­sor McG­ona­gall back in­to the school . But they weren’t tak­en to any­body’s of­fice this time . Madam Pom­frey was bend­ing over a fifth-year girl with long, curly hair . And on the bed next to her was — “Hermione!” Ron groaned .
All stu­dents will re­turn to their House com­mon rooms by six o’clock in the evening . No stu­dent is to use the bath­room un­ac­com­pa­nied by a teach­er .
Per­cy Weasley was sitting in a chair be­hind Lee, but for once he didn’t seem keen to make his views heard . But Har­ry was on­ly half-lis­ten­ing. He wasn’t able to get rid of the pic­ture of Hermione .
Ron qui­et­ly in Har­ry’s ear, mak­ing up his mind . “We’ve got to go and talk to him,” he said . It was their on­ly chance of sneak­ing out of the school to vis­it Ha­grid with any­one know­ing about it .
Har­ry, who had wan­dered the cas­tle at night sev­er­al times be­fore, had nev­er seen it so crowd­ed af­ter sun­set . Their In­vis­ibil­ity Cloak didn’t stop them mak­ing any noise, and there was a par­tic­ular­ly tense mo­ment when Ron stubbed his toe on­ly yards from the spot where Snape stood 
Har­ry and Ron ex­changed pan­ic­strick­en looks, then threw the In­vis­ibil­ity Cloak back over them­selves and re­treat­ed in­to a cor­ner . The stranger had rum­pled gray hair and an anx­ious ex­pres­sion, and was wearing a strange mix­ture of clothes . “That’s Dad’s boss!” Ron breathed. “Are you okay
Har­ry el­bowed hard to make him shut up . He dropped in­to one of his chairs and looked from Dum­ble­dore to Cor­nelius Fudge . “I nev­er,” said Ha­grid, look­ing im­plor­ing­ly .
“Take me where?” said Ha­grid, who was trem­bling . “For a short stretch on­ly,” said Fudge .
“Dread­ful thing, Dum­ble­dore,” said Mal­foy lazi­ly, tak­ing out a long roll of parch­ment, “but the gov­er­nors feel it’s time for you to step aside. This is an Or­der of Sus­pen­sion — you’ll find all twelve sig­na­tures on it. I’m afraid we feel you’re los­ing your touch, wasn’
Dum­ble­dore had not tak­en his bright blue eyes off Lu­cius Mal­foy’s cold gray ones . “You will find that I will on­ly tru­ly have left this school when none here are loy­al to me...Help will al­ways be giv­en at Hog­warts to those who ask for it”
“We shall all miss your — er— high­ly in­di­vid­ual way of run­ning things,” said Mal­foy . He strode to the cab­in door, opened it, and bowed Dum­ble­dore out . Fudge, fid­dling with his bowler, stood his ground, took a deep breath .
Har­ry and Ron had tried to vis­it Hermione, but vis­itors were now barred from the hos­pi­tal wing . With Dum­ble­dore gone, fear had spread as nev­er be­fore . There was bare­ly a face to be seen in the school that didn’t look wor­ried and tense .
Har­ry looked ev­ery­where he went, helped (rather re­luc­tant­ly) by Ron . They were ham­pered by the fact that they weren’t al­lowed to wan­der off on their own but had to move around the cas­tle in a pack with the oth­er Gryffind­ors .
Dra­co Mal­foy was strut­ing around the school as though he had just been ap­point­ed Head Boy . Har­ry didn’t re­al­ize what he was so pleased about un­til the Po­tions les­son about two weeks af­ter Dum­ble­dore and Ha­grid had left . “I al­ways thought Fa­ther might be the one who got rid of Dumble
Snape smirked as he swept off around the dun­geon, for­tu­nate­ly not spot­ting Sea­mus Finni­gan . “Bet you five Galleons the next one dies. Pity it wasn’t Granger,” Mal­foy said .
Pro­fes­sor Sprout set them all to work prun­ing the Abyssini­an Shriv­elfigs . Har­ry went to tip an armful of with­ered stalks on­to the com­post heap and found him­self face-to- face with Ernie Macmil­lan .
Har­ry and Ron lagged be­hind the oth­ers so they could talk out of earshot . “Er — aren’t there supposed to be were­wolves in the for­est?” he added as they took their usu­al places in Lock­hart’s class­room .
Ron had nev­er been in­to the For­bid­den For­est be­fore once . Ev­ery oth­er teach­er in the place was looking grim­mer than usu­al . Lock­hart ap­peared noth­ing short of buoy­ant . “Come now,” he cried, beam­ing around him .
Ron read the mes­sage, swal­lowed hard, and looked side­ways at the emp­ty seat usu­al­ly filled by Hermione . The sight seemed to stiff­en his re­solve, and he nod­ded . Fred and George chal­lenged Har­ry and Ron to a few games of Ex­plod­ing Snap .
Har­ry and Ron wait­ed for the dis­tant sounds of two doors clos­ing be­fore seiz­ing the cloak, throwing it over them­selves, and climbing through the por­trait hole . They reached the en­trance hall, slid back the lock on the oak front doors, squeezed be­tween them, try­ing to stop any creak­ing .
Har­ry took out his wand, mur­mured, “Lu­mos!” and a tiny light ap­peared at the end of it, just enough to let them watch the path for signs of spi­ders . “Good think­ing,” said Ron. “Okay, Ron sighed as though re­signed to the worst, “I’m ready. Let’s go.” By the glow of Harry’s wund, they fol­
Har­ry had nev­er been this deep in­to the for­est be­fore . He could vivid­ly re­mem­ber Ha­grid ad­vis­ing him not to leave the forest path last time he’d been in here . Some­thing wet touched Harry’s hand and he jumped back­ward, crush­ing Ron’s foot, but it was on­ly Fang’s nose . “We’ve come this
“What?” said Ron loud­ly, looking around in­to the pitch- dark . “Lis­ten...sounds like some­thing big....” They lis­tened. “Oh, no,” said Ron fran­ti­cal­ly. “Shut up,” said Har­ry in an un­nat­ural­ly high voice. “It’s al­ready heard Fang!”
Mr. Weasley’s car was standing, emp­ty, in the mid­dle of thick trees un­der a roof of dense branches, its head­lights ablaze . As Ron walked, open- mouthed, it moved slow­ly to­ward him, ex­act­ly like a large, turquoise dog greet­ing its own­er . The sides of the car were scratched and smeared with mud .
Har­ry saw that what had hold of him was march­ing on six im­mense­ly long, hairy legs, the front two clutch­ing him tight­ly be­low a pair of shin­ing black pin­cers . They were mov­ing in­to the heart of the for­est, no doubt car­ry­ing Ron .
Har­ry fell to the ground on all fours as the spi­der re­leased him . Ron and Fang thud­ded down next to him, cow­er­ing silent­ly on the spot . It had been hard to tell, be­cause he clicked his pin­cers with ev­ery word he spoke . “Is it Ha­grid?” said Ar­agog, mov­ing clos­er .
Ar­agog paused. “Ha­grid has nev­er sent men in­to our hol­low be­fore,” Har­ry said slow­ly. “That’s why we’ve come.” “In trou­ble?” said the aged spi­der . “They think, up at the school, that’s been set­ting a — — some­thing on stu­dents. They’ve tak­en him to Azk­aban.” Ar
Ar­agog re­mem­bered it well. That’s why they made him leave the school . “You didn’t come from the Cham­ber of Se­crets?” said Har­ry . "I was not born in the cas­tle. I come from a dis­tant land."
“Nev­er” croaked the old spi­der . “I nev­er saw any part of the cas­tle but the cup­board in which I grew up.” “But then...Do you know what did kill that girl?” said Har­ry . He was drowned by a loud out­break of click­ing .
Har­ry said he can­not de­ny fresh meat, when it wan­ders so will­ing­ly in­to our midst. “Good-bye, friend of Ha­grid.” Harry spun around . He knew it was no good, there were too many of them, but as he tried to stand, ready to die fighting­ing .
Har­ry looked side­ways at Ron. His mouth was still open in the silent scream, but his eyes weren’t pop­ping any­more . They smashed their way through the un­der­growth, Fang howl­ing loud­ly in the back seat . Af­ter ten noisy, rocky minutes, the trees thinned .
Fang flung him­self at the win­dow in his anx­iety to get out . Har­ry shot off through the trees to Ha­grid’s house, tail be­tween his legs . Ron seemed to re­gain the feel­ing in his limbs and fol­lowed .
Har­ry twitched the cloak to make sure their feet were hid­den . They walked care­ful­ly back across the en­trance hall and up the mar­ble stair­case . At last they reached the safe­ty of the Gryffind­or com­mon room, where the fire had burned it­self in­to glow­ing ash .
Rid­dle had caught the wrong per­son, the Heir of Slytherin had got off . There was no­body else to ask . Har­ry lay down, still think­ing about what Ar­agog had said .
Pro­fes­sor McG­ona­gall told them that their ex­ams would start on the first of June, one week from to­day . There was a loud bang be­hind Har­ry as Neville Long­bot­tom’s wand slipped, van­ish­ing one of the legs on his desk .
Pro­fes­sor Dumble­dore’s in­struc­tions were to keep the school run­ning as nor­mal­ly as pos­si­ble . He looked down at the pair of white rab­bits he was sup­posed to be turning­ing in­to slip­pers . “Can you imag­ine me tak­ing ex­ams with this?” he asked Har­ry, holding up his
Pro­fes­sor McG­ona­gall said the Mandrakes are ready for cut­ting at last . Har­ry looked over at the Slytherin ta­ble and wasn’t at all surprised to see that Dra­co Mal­foy hadn’t joined in . “Hermione’ll prob­ably have all the an­swers when they wake her up!” said Ron .
Gin­ny looked as though she couldn’t find the right words . Har­ry leaned for­ward and spoke qui­et­ly . Per­cy Weasley ap­peared, looking tired and wan .
Har­ry had nev­er seen Per­cy look so un­com­fort­able . “Go on, tell us, we won’t laugh.” Percy didn’t smile back . He knew the whole mys­tery might be solved to­mor­row with­out their help .
Lock­hart had so of­ten as­sured them that all dan­ger had passed . He was now whole­heart­ed­ly con­vinced that it was hard­ly worth the trou­ble to see them safe­ly down the cor­ri­dors . “Mark my words,” he said, ush­ing them around a cor­ner .
Ron and Pro­fes­sor McG­ona­gall looked at Ron . “We were going to — to go and see —” Ron stam­mered .
Har­ry and Ron walked away, dis­tinct­ly heard Pro­fes­sor McG­ona­gall blow her nose . Madam Pom­frey let them in, but re­luc­tant­ly . “There’s just no point talk­ing to a Pet­ri­fied. per­son,” she said .
The Basilisk, known al­so as the King of Ser­pents, is born from a chick­en’s egg hatched be­neath a toad . Its meth­ods of killing are most won­drous, for aside from its dead­ly and ven­omous fangs, the Basilisk has a mur­derous stare .
The mon­ster in the Cham­ber’s a basilisk — a gi­ant ser­pent! It’s be­cause I un­der­stand Parsel­tongue....” Har­ry looked up at the beds around him . The basilisk kills peo­ple by look­ing at them. But no one’s died — be­casual no one looked it straight in the eye . Nick got the full blast of it, but he
The Heir of Slytherin didn’t want one any­where near the cas­tle! Spi­ders flee be­fore it.! It all fits! “But how’s the basilisk been getting­ting around the place?” said Ron. “A gi­ant snake...Some­one would’ve seen...” Ron sud­den­ly grabbed Har­ry’s arm .
Har­ry and Ron paced around it, too ex­cit­ed to sit down . But the bell to sig­nal break nev­er came . In­stead, echo­ing through the cor­ri­dors came Pro­fes­sor McG­ona­gall’s voice .
“A stu­dent has been tak­en by the mon­ster. Right in­to the Cham­ber it­self.” Snape clapped the back of a chair very hard and said, “How can you be sure?” “The Heir of Slytherin,” said Pro­fes­sor McG­ona­gall . Madam Hooch had sunk, weak- kneed . “Gin­ny Weasley” said Har­ry
Lock­hart chipped in Pro­fes­sor Flitwick . “I — well, I —” sput­tered lock­hart. “That’s right, Gilderoy,” chipped .
The Hog­warts Ex­press will take them home first thing to­mor­row . It was prob­ably the worst day of Harry’s en­tire life . He, Ron, Fred, and George sat to­geth­er in a cor­ner of the Gryffind­or com­mon room .
“I mean, she was a pure- blood. There can’t be any oth­er rea­son.” Har­ry could see the sun sink­ing, blood- red, be­low the sky­line . “D’you think there’s any chance at all she’s not — you know—” said Ron . He couldn’t see how Gin­ny could still be alive .
Lock­hart’s of­fice had been hasti­ly fold­ed in­to one of them . Two large trunks stood open on the floor . Robes, jade- green, lilac, mid­night blue, had been com­plete­ly stripped . “Are you going some­where?” said Har­ry .
“You’re the De­fense Against the Dark Arts teach­er!” said Har­ry . “You mean you’re run­ning away?” said Lock­hart dis­believ­ing­ly .
“Har­ry, Har­ry,” said Lock­hart, shak­ing his head im­pa­tient­ly . “I had to track these peo­ple down. Ask them ex­act­ly how they man­aged to do what they did. Then I had to put a Mem­ory Charm on them so they wouldn’t re­mem­ber doing it. You want fame, you have to be pre­pared for a long hard slog
Har­ry fu­ri­ous­ly, forc­ing Lock­hart to his feet at wand­point . “You’re in luck,” said Harry . Moan­ing Myr­tle was sitting on the tank of the end toi­let .
“I died in this very stall. I re­mem­ber it so well. I’d hid­den be­cause Olive Horn­by was teas­ing me about my glass­es. The door was locked, and I was cry­ing, and then I heard some­body come in. A dif­fer­ent lan­guage, I think it must have been.” “How?” said Har­ry. “No idea,” said Myr­tle in hus
Har­ry looked back at the snake, will­ing him­self to be­lieve it was alive . If he moved his head, the can­dle­light made it look as though it were mov­ing . “Open up,” he said. “I’m go­ing down there,” Ron said.
Ron and Har­ry point­ed their wands at him . Lock­hart slid his legs in­to the pipe, then let go . It was like rush­ing down an end­less, slimy, dark slide . He could see more pipes branch­ing off in all di­rec­tions .
Lock­hart was getting­ting to his feet a lit­tle ways away, cov­ered in slime and white as a ghost . Har­ry stood aside as Ron came whizzing out of the pipe, too . “Un­der the lake, prob­ably,” said Ron, squint­ing around at the dark, slimy walls .
Har­ry low­ered his wand to look at the floor and saw that it was lit­tered with small an­imal bones . He could just see the out­line of some­thing huge and curved, ly­ing right across the tun­nel . “Maybe it’s asleep,” he breathed, glanc­ing back at the oth­er two . Lock­hart’s hands were pressed over his eyes .
Lock­hart was straight­en­ing up, pant­ing, Ron’s wand in his hand and a gleam­ing smile back on his face . “The adven­ture ends here, boys!” he said. “I shall take a bit of this skin back up to the school, tell them I was too late to save the girl, and that you two trag­ical­ly lost your minds at the sight of her man­gled body!” Har­ry raised Ron
Gin­ny had al­ready been in the Cham­ber of Se­crets for hours...Har­ry knew there was on­ly one thing to do . There was a very preg­nant pause, “I’ll try and shift some of this rock,” said Ron . Soon the dis­tant noise of Ron strain­ing to shift the rocks was gone . The tun­nel turned and turned again .
Har­ry was standing at the end of a very long, dim­ly lit cham­ber . Tow­er­ing stone pil­lars en­twined with more carved ser­pents rose to sup­port a ceil­ing lost in dark­ness, cast­ing long, black shad­ows through the odd, green­ish gloom that filled the place .
Har­ry had to crane his neck to look up in­to the gi­ant face above . It was an­cient and mon­key­ish, with a long, thin beard that fell al­most to the bot­tom of the wiz­ard’s sweep­ing stone robes . He flung his wand aside, grabbed Gin­ny’s shoul­ders, and turned her over .
Tom Rid­dle had been at Hog­warts fifty years ago . But here he stood, a weird, misty light shin­ing about him . He pointed to­ward the floor near the stat­ue’s gi­ant toes . “You’ve got to help me, Tom,” Har­ry said .
“I’ve got to go! If the basilisk comes —” Har­ry low­ered Gin­ny back on­to the floor, un­able to hold her up any longer . “What d’you mean, I might need it,” said Rid­dle. “You won’t be need­ing it.” “You’ve wait­ed a long time for this, Harry Pot­ter.” “I don’t think you get it. We’re going to talk now
“I sup­pose the re­al rea­son Gin­ny Weasley’s like this is be­cause she opened her heart and spilled all her se­crets to an in­vis­ible stranger.” “What are you talking­ing about?” said Har­ry. “The di­ary,” said Rid­dle. “I was bor­ing, hav­ing to lis­ten to the sil­ly lit­tle trouble
Gin­ny Weasley opened the Cham­ber of Se­crets . She stran­gled the school roost­ers and daubed threat­en­ing mes­sages on the walls . “No,” Har­ry whis­pered, a high, cold laugh .
Har­ry’s fists were clenched, the nails dig­ging deep in­to his palms . “I think I’m los­ing my mem­ory,” said Rid­dle, calm­ly .
“I knew I must find out more about you, talk to you, meet you if I could. So I de­cid­ed to show you my fa­mous cap­ture of that great oaf, Ha­grid, to gain your trust —” said Har­ry .
Ar­man­do Dip­pet seemed to think Ha­grid was in­no­cent . Dum­ble­dore nev­er seemed to like me as much as the oth­er teach­ers did .
“Well, you haven’t fin­ished it,” said Har­ry tri­umphant­ly . “No one’s died this time, not even the cat,” said Rid­dle care­less­ly. “I knew it wouldn’t be safe to open the Cham­ber again while I was still at school .
Gin­ny was writ­ing to me, not you. She saw you with the di­ary, you see, and pan­icked . What if you found out how to work it, and I re­peat­ed all her se­crets to you? It was clear to me that you were on the trail of Slytherin’s heir .
Lord Volde­mort’s pow­ers were de­stroyed? He pulled Har­ry’s wand from his pock­et and be­gan to trace it through the air, writ­ing three shim­mer­ing words: TOM MAR­VO­LO RID­DLE Then the let­ters of his name re­ar­range them­selves: LORD VOLDE­MORT .
Har­ry fash­ioned my­self a new name, a name I knew wiz­ards ev­ery­where would one day fear to speak, when I had be­come the great­est sor­cer­er in the world!” said Rid­dle . Al­bus Dum­ble­dore saw through you when you were at school and he still fright­ens you now .
Rid­dle opened his mouth, but froze. Mu­sic was com­ing from some­where . It was eerie, spine- tin­gling, un­earth­ly . Flames erupt­ed at the top of the near­est pil­lar .
Rid­dle looked up and saw it had a long, sharp gold­en beak and a black eye . It sat still and warm next to Har­ry’s cheek, gaz­ing steadi­ly at it . “That’s a phoenix.” said Riddle, star­ing shrewd­ly back at it, and felt the bird’s gold­den claws squeeze his shoul­der gen­tly .
Har­ry had Fawkes and the Sort­ing Hat, nei­ther of which would be much good in a du­el . The longer Rid­dle stood there, the more life was dwin­dling out of Gin­ny...and in the mean­time, Harry no­ticed sud­den­ly . “No one knows why you lost your pow­ers when you at­tacked me,” said Harry abrupt­ly, s
Har­ry stood, tense, wait­ing for Rid­dle to raise his wand . He cast an amused eye over Fawkes and the Sorting Hat, then walked away . “Speak to me, Slytherin, great­est of the Hog­warts Four.” He said. “I won­dered, you see. There are strange like­ness­es be­tween us, af­ter all. It was mere­ly
Har­ry saw his mouth open­ing, wider and wider, to make a huge black hole . Some­thing was stir­ring in­side the stat­ue’s mouth .
Har­ry opened his eyes wide enough to squint at what was going on . The enor­mous ser­pent, bright, poi­sonous green, thick as an oak trunk, had raised it­self high in the air and its great blunt head was weav­ing drunk­en­ly be­tween the pil­lars . Fawkes was soar­ing around its head, and the basilisk was snap­ing fu­ri­ous
Fawkes was cir­cling its head, pip­ing his eerie song, jab­bing here and there at its scaly nose as the blood poured from its ru­ined eyes . “Help me, help me,” Har­ry mut­tered wild­ly, “some­one — any­one...” The basilisk had swept the Sort­ing Hat in­to Harry’s arms . It was all he had left, his on­
Har­ry threw his whole weight be­hind the sword and drove it to the hilt in­to the roof of the ser­pent’s mouth . He gripped the fang that was spread­ing poi­son through his body and wrenched it out of his arm . The Cham­ber was dis­solv­ing in a whirl of dull col­or . “You were fan­tas­tic, Fawkes...”
Har­ry Pot­ter felt drowsy. Ev­ery­thing around him seemed to be spin­ning . “You’re dead. Even Dum­ble­dore’s bird knows it. Do you see what he’s do­ing, Pot­ters?” Harry blinked . Fawke’s head slid in and out of fo­cus .
Rid­dle was point­ing Har­ry’s wand at Fawkes; there was a bang like a gun . “Get away from him — I said, get away —” Riddle’s voice sud­den­ly .
Rid­dle was writhing and twist­ing, scream­ing and flail­ing . Har­ry’s wand fell to the floor with a clat­ter and there was si­lence . The basilisk ven­om had burned a siz­zling hole right through it . Slow­ly, he gath­ered to­geth­er his head and the Sort­ing Hat .
Har­ry urged Gin­ny for­ward; they stepped over the mo­tion­less coils of the dead basilisk, through the echo­ing gloom, and back in­to the tun­nel . Af­ter a few min­utes’ progress up the dark tun­el, a dis­tant sound of slow­ly shift­ing rock reached Harry’s ears . “Ron!” Harry yelled, speed­ing up .
Gilderoy Lock­hart was sitting there, hum­ing placid­ly to him­self . Fawkes swooped through the gap af­ter Gin­ny . “How come you’ve got a sword?” said Har­ry .
Lock­hart peered good- na­tured­ly up at them all . “Odd sort of place, this, isn’t it? Do you live here?” Ron said . Fawkes the phoenix had swooped past Har­ry and was now flut­ter­ing in front of him .
Har­ry reached out and took hold of Fawkes’s strange­ly hot tail feath­ers . An ex­traor­di­nary light­ness seemed to spread through his whole body and the next sec­ond, in a rush of wings, they were flying up­ward through the pipe . The chill air was whip­ping through Harry’s hair, and as Lock­hart straight­ened his hat, the sink that hid the pipe was slid­ing back in
Har­ry, Ron, Gin­ny, and Lock­hart stood in the door­way, cov­ered in muck and slime and (in Harry’s case) blood . Mrs. Weasley, who had been sitting cry­ing in front of the fire, leapt to her feet and flung them­selves on their daugh­ter . Fawkes was leading the way, glow­ing gold along the cor­ri­dor .
“I think we’d all like to know that,” said Pro­fes­sor McG­ona­gall weak­ly . Mrs. Weasley let go of Har­ry, who hes­itat­ed for a mo­ment, then walked over to the desk and laid up­on it the Sort­ing Hat . Then he start­ing telling them ev­ery­thing .
Rid­dle’s di­ary didn’t work any­more...How could they prove it had been he who’d made her do it all? In­stinc­tive­ly, Har­ry looked at Dum­ble­dore, who smile faint­ly glanc­ing off his half- moon spec­ta­cles . “You- Know- Who? En­chant Gin­ny?” said Mr. Weasley .
Lord Volde­mort was once called Tom Rid­dle . He dis­ap­peared af­ter leav­ing the school... trav­eled far and wide...sank so deeply in­to the Dark Arts, con­sort­ed with the very worst of our kind, un­der­went so many dan­ger­ous, mag­ical trans­for­ma­tions .
“Gin­ny!” said Mr. Weasley, flab­ber­gast­ed . “I’ve taught you any­thing. What have I al­ways told you? Nev­er trust anything that can think for it­self?
Pro­fes­sor Dum­ble­dore said all this mer­its a good feast . “I’ll leave you to deal with Pot­ter and Weasley, shall I?” she said . "I seem to re­mem­ber telling you both that I would have to ex­pel you”
Lock­hart was standing in a cor­ner of the room, still wear­ing his vague smile . When Dum­ble­dore ad­dressed him, he looked over his shoul­der to see who he was talking to . “He tried to do a Mem­ory Charm and the wand back­fired,” Ron ex­plained qui­et­ly .
Har­ry grinned awk­ward­ly as Dum­ble­dore watched him . “You must have shown me re­al loy­al­ty down in the Cham­ber.” He stroked the phoenix, which had flut­tered down on­to his knee .
“You can speak Parsel­tongue, Har­ry,” said Dum­ble­dore calm­ly, “be­cause Lord Volde­mort — who is the last re­main­ing an­ces­tor of Salazar Slytherin . Un­less I’m much mis­tak­en, he trans­ferred some of his own pow­ers to you the night he gave you that scar. Not some­thing he
Salazar Slytherin prized in his hand- picked stu­dents . His own very rare gift, Parsel­tongue — re­source­ful­ness — de­ter­mi­na­tion . “It on­ly put me in Gryffind­or,” said Dum­ble­dore .
“On­ly a true Gryffind­or could have pulled that out of the hat, Har­ry,” said Dum­ble­dore sim­ply . He pulled open one of the draw­ers in Pro­fes­sor McG­ona­gall’s desk and took out a quill and a bot­tle of ink .
Mr. Mal­foy had set out in a great hur­ry, for not on­ly were his shoes half-pol­ished, but his usu­al­ly sleek hair was di­sheveled . “Well, you see, Lu­cius,” said Dum­ble­dore, smil­ing serene­ly .
Lord Volde­mort was acting­ing through some­body else . He held up the small black book with the large hole through the cen­ter . Har­ry, how­ev­er, was watch­ing Dob­by .
Imag­ine the ef­fect on Arthur Weasley and his Mug­gle Pro­tection Act . He saw Mr. Mal­foy’s white hands clench and un­clench . “Prove it,” he hissed. “How should I know how the stupid lit­tle girl got hold of that di­ary?” he said .
Lu­cius Mal­foy stood for a mo­ment, and Har­ry dis­tinct­ly saw his right hand twitch as though he was long­ing to reach for his wand . In­stead, he turned to his house- elf. “We’re going, Dob­by!” He wrenched open the door and as the elf came hur­ry­ing up to him . “Can I give that di­ary back to Mr. Mal
Har­ry took off one of his shoes, pulled off his slimy, filthy sock, and stuffed the di­ary in­to it . Then he ran down the dark cor­ri­dor. “Mr. Mal­foy,” he gasped, skid­ding to a halt . “They were med­dle­some fools, too.” He turned to go. “Come, Dob­by. I said, come.”
Lu­cius Mal­foy stood frozen, star­ing at the elf . “You’ve lost me my ser­vant, boy!” But Dob­by shout­ed, “You shall not harm Har­ry Pot­ter!” He crashed down the stairs, three at a time, land­ing in a crum­pled heap .
Dob­by threw his arms around Har­ry’s mid­dle and hugged him . He dis­ap­peared with a fi­nal loud crack . “The Dark Lord, be­fore he changed his name, could be freely named, you see?” he said .
Har­ry didn’t know whether the best bit was Hermione running­ning to him, scream­ing “You solved it! You solved it!” or Justin hur­ry­ing over from the Huf­flepuff ta­ble to wring . Pro­fes­sor McG­ona­gall stand­ing up to tell them all that the ex­ams had been can­celed as a school treat (“Oh, no!” said Her
Hog­warts was back to nor­mal with on­ly a few, small dif­fer­ences . De­fense Against the Dark Arts class­es were can­celed . Lu­cius Mal­foy had been sacked as a school gov­er­nor . Har­ry, Ron, Hermione, Fred, George, and Gin­ny got a com­part­ment .
The Hog­warts Ex­press slowed and fi­nal­ly stopped . Har­ry pulled out his quill and a bit of parch­ment and turned to Ron and Hermione . “I told your dad how to use a tele­phone last sum­mer — he’ll know.”
