Dudley Demented The hottest day of the summer so far was drawing to a close and a drowsy silence lay over the large, square houses of Privet Drive . Deprived of their usual car-washing and lawn-mowing pursuits, the inhabitants had retreated into the shade of their cool houses . The only person left outdoors was a teenage boy who had the pinched, slightly unhealthy look of someone who has grown a lot in a short space of time .
Uncle Vernon grunted. “Watching the news ...” he said scathingly. “I’d like to know what he’s really up to. As if a normal boy cares what’s going on, doubt he knows who the Prime Minister is! Anyway, it’s not as if there’d be anything about his lot on our news —” Aunt Petunia said . “Oh — yes — sorry, dear ...” The Dursleys fell silent 
The Spanish baggage-handlers’ strike reaches its second week . Every day this summer had been the same: the tension, the expectation, the temporary relief, and then mounting tension again . He kept listening, just in case there was some small clue .
Harry rolled cautiously onto his front and raised himself onto his knees and elbows, preparing to crawl out from under the window . A loud, echoing crack broke the sleepy silence like a gunshot . Uncle Vernon yelped and released Harry as though he had received an electric shock .
Harry stuffed his wand hastily back into his jeans and tried to look innocent . Uncle Vernon waving at Mrs. Number Seven, who was glaring from behind her net curtains . He continued to grin in a horrible, manic way until all the curious neighbors had disappeared .
Uncle Vernon lowered his voice so that Harry could barely hear him, “... that your lot don’t get on our news!” Aunt Petunia said, “You’re a nasty little liar.” “Aha!” said Uncle Vernon in a triumphant whisper . It cost him something to tell the truth this time, even though his aunt and uncle could not possibly know how bad Harry felt at admitting it .
Harry was sure that the cracking noise had been made by someone Apparating or Disapparating . It was exactly the sound Dobby the house-elf made when he vanished into thin air . He walked on, hardly aware of the route he was taking, for he had pounded these streets so often lately that his feet carried him to his favorite haunts .
Ron and Hermione had scribbled, “I expect we’ll be seeing you quite soon” inside his birthday card . He could hardly bear to think of the pair having fun at the Burrow when he was stuck in Privet Drive . It was bad enough that he kept revisiting the graveyard in his nightmares .
Harry turned a corner into Magnolia Crescent; halfway along he passed the narrow alleyway down the side of a garage where he had first clapped eyes on his godfather . Sirius, at least, seemed to understand how Harry was feeling; admittedly his letters were just as empty of proper news as Ron and Hermione’s . But at least they contained words of caution and consolation instead of tantalizing hints: “Keep your nose clean and everything will be okay. ...” Well,
Harry vaulted over the locked park gate and set off across the parched grass . When he reached the swings he sank onto the only one that Dudley and his friends had not yet managed to break, coiled one arm around the chain, and stared moodily at the ground . In the meantime, he had nothing to look forward to but another restless, disturbed night .
Harry was stuck in Little Whinging for four solid weeks, completely cut off from the magical world . How much longer was he supposed to endure Sirius telling him to sit tight and be a good boy or resist the temptation to write to the stupid Daily Prophet and point out that Voldemort had returned? Harry knew who those people were .
Dudley had become the Junior Heavyweight Inter-School Boxing Champion of the Southeast . “The noble sport,” as Uncle Vernon called it, had made him even more formidable than he had seemed to Harry in the primary school days . Neighborhood children all around were terrified of him — even more terrified than they were of “that Potter boy,” who had been warned .
Uncle Vernon threatened to lock Harry in the shed if he came home after Dudley again, so, stifling a yawn, still scowling, Harry set off toward the park gate . Harry preferred Little Whinging by night, when the curtained windows made patches of jewel-bright colors in the darkness .
“How long have you been ‘Big D’ then?” said Harry . “I said, SHUT IT!” said Dudley, whose ham-like hands had curled into fists .
Harry pulled out his wand and saw Dudley look sideways at it . “How d’you know they haven’t changed the rules, Big D?” Harry laughed softly .
“I heard you last night,” said Dudley breathlessly . “What d’you mean?” Harry said again, but there was a cold, plunging sensation in his stomach . He had revisited the graveyard last night in his dreams.
The star-strewn indigo sky was suddenly pitch-black and lightless . They were surrounded by total, impenetrable, silent darkness . For a split second Harry thought he had done magic without meaning to . He turned his head this way and that, trying to see something, but the darkness pressed on his eyes like a weightless veil .
Harry felt a horrible jolt of dread as he stood trembling in the freezing air . “C-cut it out! I’ll h-hit you, I swear I will!” “Dudley, shut —” WHAM! A fist made contact with the side of Harry’s head, lifting Harry off his feet . The second time in an hour he felt as though his head had been cleaved in two .
A silvery wisp of vapor shot from the tip of the wand and the dementor slowed, but the spell hadn’t worked properly . A pair of gray, slimy, scabbed hands slid from inside his robes, reaching for him . There was laughter inside his own head, shrill, high-pitched laughter .
a silver stag erupted from the tip of Harry’s wand; its antlers caught the dementor in the place where the heart should have been; it was thrown backward, weightless as darkness . Harry shouted at the stutter and sprinted down the alleyway . “DUDLEY? DUDLEY!” He had run barely a dozen steps when he reached them .
Ms. Figg, their batty old neighbor, came panting into sight . Harry made to stow his wand hurriedly out of sight, but — “Don’t put it away, idiot boy!” she shrieked . “I told him I’d flay him alive if he went, and now look! I will kill him!” she said .
Harry stooped down, seized one of Dudley’s massive arms in her wizened hands, and tugged . He was still on the ground, trembling and ashen-faced, his mouth shut very tight . The moment Harry let go of him he swayed dangerously .
“Keep your wand out,” Harry told Harry as they entered Wisteria Walk . “Never mind the Statute of Secrecy now, there’s going to be hell to pay anyway, we might as well be hanged for a dragon as an egg” .
Dumbledore will need to act as quickly as possible, they’ll know already, you mark my words . “Oh my dear, I wish it were so but I’m afraid — MUNDUNGUS FLETCHER, I AM GOING TO KILL YOU!” he said, staring from Mrs. Figg to Harry and Dudley .
Mrs. Figg raised the arm from which her string bag dangled and whacked Mundungus around the face and neck with it . “Ouch — gerroff — you mad old bat! Someone’s gotta tell Dumbledore!” “And — it — had — better — be— you — and — You — can — tell — him — why —you — weren’t — there — to — help!” y
"Of course he has," said Mrs. Figg impatiently . "I expect someone will be in touch with you soon enough." "Hang on, don’t go yet! I want to know"
Harry’s uncle came galumphing out of the living room, glaring at Harry through tiny, narrowed eyes . He hurried forward to help Aunt Petunia negotiate a weak-kneed Dudley over the threshold while avoiding stepping in the pool of sick .
Uncle Vernon was sponging sick from the front of Dudley’s leather jacket . “I didn’t do anything to him, it wasn’t me, it was —” Harry said sharply as Aunt Petunia raised his fists . The screech owl swooped in through the kitchen window .
Harry read the letter through twice at the Ministry of Magic . He was only vaguely aware of Uncle Vernon and Aunt Petunia talking in the vicinity . Inside his head, all was icy and numb. One fact had penetrated his consciousness like a paralyzing dart .
“You can’t pull that one on me!” snarled Uncle Vernon . “The madhouse has chucked me out,” said Harry. “So I can do whatever I like. You’ve got three seconds. One — two —” A resounding CRACK filled the kitchen . The barn owl was sitting outside on the kitchen sill .
Harry flung himself down at the kitchen table and faced Dudley and Aunt Petunia . The vein in Uncle Vernon’s purple temple was throbbing worse than ever . “The second one was from the Ministry of Magic, expelling me,” said Uncle Vernon .
Uncle Vernon and Aunt Petunia exchanged looks of utter horror . “Go on, son,” repeated Uncle Vernon, mustache blowing about furiously . "All dark. And then I h-heard... things. Insidem-my head ... people who heard voices were definitely in the bottom ten," Uncle Vernon said .
Dudley was remembering the clammy cold that filled the lungs as hope and happiness were sucked out of you . “Okay,” said Uncle Vernon in a voice of forced calm . Aunt Petunia looked quite appalled with herself .
Uncle Vernon opened his mouth, closed it again, shut it, then opened it again . Uncle Vernon looked from Aunt Petunia to Dudley to Harry as if hoping someone was going to shout “April Fool!” The third owl of the evening zoomed through the still-open window like a feathery cannonball and landed with a clatter on the kitchen table causing all three of the Dursleys to jump with fright .
Yours sincerely, IMPROPER USE OF MAGIC OFFICE Ministry of Magic Harry read this letter through three times in quick succession . The miserable knot in his chest loosened slightly at the thought that he was not definitely expelled, though his fears were by no means banished . You may retain your wand until your disciplinary hearing on 12th August .
“Dudley thought he’d be smart with me, I pulled out my wand but didn’t use it” asked Uncle Vernon furiously . “I told you — they suck all the happiness out of you,” said Harry .
Harry was already pulling a roll of parchment from the owl’s leg . He was so convinced that this letter had to be from Dumbledore . For the first time in his life he was disappointed to see Sirius’s handwriting .
“I did the Patronus Charm to get rid of the dementors,” said Uncle Vernon . “Couldn’t tell you,” said Harry wearily. “No idea.” His anger was ebbing away. He felt drained, exhausted. The Dursleys were all staring at him. “I don’t know why they were here.” But at these words, Harry’s exhausted brain ground back into action .
Harry registered dimly how strange it was that the Dursleys could hear the name of the most evil wizard of all time without the slightest tremor . “Lord — hang on,” said Uncle Vernon, his face screwed up, a look of dawning comprehension in his piggy eyes . The arrival of the dementors in Little Whinging seemed to have caused a breach in the great, invisible wall that divided the relentlessly non-magical world of Privet Drive .
Aunt Petunia had never looked at him like that before . Uncle Vernon looked from his white-faced wife to Harry and hitching up his trousers . He seemed to be swelling, his great purple face stretching before Harry’s eyes . “Well, that settles it,” said Harry .
Uncle Vernon bellowed, and even Aunt Petunia and Dudley jumped . "You heard me — OUT! I should’ve done it years ago! You’re history! You're not staying here if some loony’s after you, you’re not endangering my wife and son," said Uncle Vernon .
Harry darted forward to pick up the letter, but Uncle Vernon beat him to it . “Let go of it, Petunia!” roared Uncle Vernon. “Don’t touch it, it could be dangerous!” She caught her breath, horrified .
Uncle Vernon was deflating like an old tire . Aunt Petunia ignored him. “You’re not to leave the house. Now get to bed.” The Advanced Guard “I’ve just been attacked by dementors and I might be expelled from Hogwarts. I want to know what’s going on and when I’m going to get out of here.”
Hedwig paced, consumed with anger and frustration, grinding his teeth and clenching his fists, casting angry looks out at the empty, star-strewn sky every time he passed the window . Dementors sent to get him, Mrs. Figg and Mundungus Fletcher tailing him in secret, then suspension from Hogwarts and a hearing at the Ministry of Magic — and still no one was telling him what was going on .
Harry threw himself down onto his bed without undressing and stared at the dark ceiling . She came back with Sirius's, Ron’s, and Hermione’s answers . They couldn’t possibly ignore a dementor attack . And with that comforting idea, sleep rolled over him, stifling all further thought .
Was it possible that he could move into Sirius’s house before he had been forced to flee from the Ministry himself? Would the matter of where he went next be decided for him? Had his breach of the International Statute of Secrecy been severe enough to land him in a cell in Azkaban? Harry invariably slid off his bed and began pacing again .
Harry heard the key turn in the lock and Uncle Vernon’s footsteps walking heavily down the stairs . A few minutes later he heard the slamming of car doors, the rumble of an engine, and the unmistakable sound of the car sweeping out of the drive . The room grew steadily darker around him as he lay listening to the night sounds through the window he kept open all the time, waiting for the blessed moment when Hedwig returned .
Harry’s heart was thumping uncontrollably. He knew that voice, but he did not lower his wand . “Professor Moody?” he said uncertainly. “Get down here, we want to see you properly.” He had very good reason to be suspicious .
Remus Lupin had more gray hair than when Harry had said good-bye to him . He looked tired and rather ill; his robes were more patched and shabbier than ever . “Ooooh, he looks just like I thought he would,” said the witch .
“What if it ignited? Better wizards than you have lost buttocks, you know!” roared Moody. “Never you mind, you just keep your wand out of your back pocket!” growled Mad-Eye . “And I saw that,” Lupin asked, looking at Harry’s .
Lupin motions Harry toward the kitchen table swigging from a hip flask . “This is Alastor Moody, Harry,” Lupin continues, pointing toward Moody .
“A surprising number of people volunteered to come and get you,” said Lupin . “We’re just waiting for the signal to tell us it’s safe to set off,” Lupin said .
Harry crossed to the dishwasher, took out a clean glass, and filled it with water at the sink, still watched eagerly by the band of wizards . “How’re we getting — wherever we’re going?” Harry asked. “Only way. You’re too young to Apparate,” Lupin said .
“You know, I don’t think purple’s really my color,” said Tonks pensively . “I’m a Metamorphmagus,” said Harry, gaping at her as she opened her eyes again . Being a Dark wizard catcher was the only career he’d ever considered after Hogwarts .
“No, I wouldn’t mind,” Harry mumbled, turning away. “Well, you’ll have to learn the hard way, I’m afraid,” said Tonks . “Don’t be stupid, it’ll be much quicker if I — pack!” cried Harry, waving her wand in a long, sweeping movement .
Harry’s trunk rose a few inches into the air, holding her wand like a conductor’s baton . Harry followed her down the stairs carrying his broomstick . Lupin was sealing a letter addressed to the Dursleys .
Harry looked down at his body, or rather, what had been his body . It was not invisible; it had simply taken on the exact color and texture of the kitchen unit behind him . “Come on,” said Harry, unlocking the back door with his wand .
“No one’s going to die,” said Kingsley Shacklebolt . “Mount your brooms, that’s the first signal!” said Lupin .
The Dursleys would be heading back to their empty house right now . Harry laughed aloud at the thought, though his voice was drowned by the flapping of the others’ robes, the creaking of the harness holding his trunk and the cage, the whoosh of the wind in their ears as they sped through the air . “We’re not going through clouds!” shouted Mad-Eye .
Kingsley Shacklebolt swooped around him, bald pate and earring gleaming slightly in the moonlight . “We’re all frozen to our brooms! If we keep going off course we’re not going to get there until next week! We’re nearly there now!” came Lupin’s voice .
Harry touched down right behind her and dismounted on a patch of unkempt grass in the middle of a small square . Lupin and Tonks followed, carrying Harry’s trunk between them, all with their wands out, flanking them . The narrow handwriting was vaguely familiar .
“What’s the Order of the — ?” Harry began. He pulled the piece of parchment out of Harry’s hand and set fire to it with his wand tip . As the message curled into flames, Harry looked around at the houses again . “Think about what you’ve just memorize,” said Lupin quietly .
Harry stepped over the threshold into the almost total darkness of the hall . He could smell damp, dust, and a sweetish, rotting smell . There were hurried footsteps and Ron’s mother, Mrs. Weasley emerged from a door .
“Oh, Harry, it’s lovely to see you!” she whispered, pulling him into a rib-cracking hug before holding him at arm’s length and examining him critically . The wizards behind Harry all made noises of interest and excitement and began filing past Harry toward the door through which Mrs. Weasley had just come; Harry made to follow Lupin . “I’ve got to hurry, I’m supposed to be at the meeting — I’ll just show you where you’re
Harry crossed the dingy landing, turned the bedroom doorknob, which was shaped like a serpent’s head, and opened the door . He caught a brief glimpse of a gloomy high-ceilinged, twin-bedded room, then there was a loud twittering noise . Hermione had thrown herself onto him in a hug that nearly knocked him flat .
The snowy owl clicked her beak and nibbled his ear affectionately . He showed Harry the index finger of his right hand, which sported a half-healed but clearly deep cut . There was a strained silence in which Harry stroked Hedwig automatically, not looking at either of the others .
Harry felt a great jolt in his guts as though he had just missed a step going downstairs . “Didn’t work that well, though, did it?” said Harry, doing his utmost to keep his voice even .
“We told Dumbledore we wanted to tell you what was going on,” said Ron . “You’re not telling me he doesn’t know ways to send messages without owls,” Hermione said .
Harry's frustration at the lack of news, the hurt that they had all been together without him, his fury at being followed and not told about it . Hedwig took fright at the noise and soared off on top of the wardrobe again; Pigwidgeon twittered in alarm and zoomed even faster around their heads . Ron was standing there with his mouth half-open, clearly stunned and at a loss for anything to say .
Harry glared at her, still breathing deeply, then turned away from them again, pacing up and down . “You’re absolutely right, Harry — I’d be furious if it was me!” said Hermione desperately, her eyes now sparkling with tears .
“Fred and George have invented Extendable Ears, see,” said Ron . “We’ve told you, the Order don’t let us in on their meetings,” said Hermione .
Hermione said weakly to the twins, who were as vividly red-haired as Ron . “You don’t want to bottle up your anger like that, Harry, let it all out,” said Fred . "Time is Galleons, little brother," said Fred, holding a piece of very long, flesh-colored string .
Fred heaved a deep sigh. “I really fancied finding out what old Snape’s been up to.” “Snape?” said Harry . “He’s on our side now,” said Hermione reprovingly .
“Whatever you do, don’t mention Percy in front of Mum and Dad,” Ron told Harry . “I think we’re well shut of him,” said Ginny sadly .
“I’m coming to that. Dad reckons Fudge only wants Percy in his office because he wants to use him to spy on the family — and Dumbledore.” Ron laughed in a hollow sort of way .
“I know,” said Harry in disbelief, as Ginny made a noise like an angry cat . He said Dad was an idiot to run around with Dumbledore, that Dad was heading for big trouble and Dad was going to go down with him, and that he — Percy — knew where his loyalty lay and it was with the Ministry . “Mum’s been in a right state,” said Ron, but he had never imagined he would say such things to Mr.
“Haven’t — haven’t you been getting the Daily Prophet?” said Harry . “Yeah, I have!” said Harry defensively. “Well, you’d need to read it cover to cover” .
“I know, Harry. But you see what they’re doing? They want to turn you into someone nobody will believe. Fudge is behind it, I’ll bet anything. They want wizards on the street to think you’re just some stupid boy who loves being famous and wants to keep it going.” “I got famous because he murdered my family but couldn’t kill me! Don’t they think I’d rather it’d never —” Ginny earnestly said .
“Someone’s told them to keep that quiet. That should’ve been a really big story, out-of-control dementors,” said Hermione . They haven’t even reported that you broke the International Statute of Secrecy . The sight of them looking so nervous made him feel slightly ashamed.
Ron cast around for a topic to change the subject from Dumbledore . “Who’s Kreacher?” Ron asked. “He’s not a nutter, Ron —” “His life’s ambition is to have his head cut off and stuck up on a plaque just like his mother,” Ron said .
Harry saw the dark, greasy-haired head and prominent nose of Professor Snape . He was very interested in what Snape was doing for the Order of the Phoenix . A moment later, Harry heard Fred whisper, as he hoisted the Extendable Ear back up again .
The old woman was drooling, her eyes were rolling, the yellowing skin of her face stretched taut as she screamed . All along the hall behind them, the other portraits awoke and began to yell too, so that Harry actually screwed up his eyes at the noise and clapped his hands over his ears . Mrs. Weasley abandoned the attempt to close the curtains and hurried up and down the hall .
Harry’s godfather, Sirius, turned to face him . “Hello, Harry,” he said grimly, “I see you’ve met my mother.” The Order of the Phoenix “Your — ?” “My dear old mum, yeah,” Sirius said .
Mr. Weasley and his eldest son, Bill, were talking quietly with their heads together at the end of the room . Harry saw Bill, who still wore his long hair in a ponytail, hastily rolling up the lengths of parchment left on the table . She snatched the plan off the table and stuffed it into Bill’s heavily laden arms .
“This sort of thing ought to be cleared away promptly at the end of meetings,” said Sirius. “You’ve met Mundungus, haven’t you?” Harry mumbled sleepily . “Some’n say m’ name?” He raised a very grubby hand in the air as though voting, his droopy, bloodshot eyes unfocused .
Harry was left at the table with Sirius and Mundungus, who was still blinking mournfully at him . Sirius scratched him absentmindedly behind the ears as he turned to Harry . “No, it’s been lousy,” said Harry.
Sirius uttered Dumbledore’s name that told Harry that Sirius was not very happy with the headmaster either . Sirius felt a sudden upsurge of affection for his godfather . “Trying to make this place fit for human habitation,” said Sirius, waving a hand around the dismal kitchen .
Harry, Sirius, and Mundungus looked around and dived away from the table . Fred and George had bewitched a large cauldron of stew, an iron flagon of butterbeer, and a heavy wooden breadboard . The stew skidded the length of the table and came to a halt .
Mrs. Weasley raged at the twins, slamming a fresh flagon of butterbeer onto the table . She stopped dead, catching her breath with a frightened look at her husband . “Let’s eat,” said Lupin .
Opposite Harry, Tonks was entertaining Hermione and Ginny by transforming her nose between mouthfuls . Her nose swelled to something resembling a button mushroom, and then sprouted a great deal of hair from each nostril . “They’re not giving away yet,” said Mr. Weasley, Bill, and Lupin .
“... and then,” he choked Mundungus, tears running down his face, “and then, if you’ll believe it, ’e says to me, ‘’ere, Dung, where didja get all them toads from?’ And I says, ‘‘Nicked all your toades, Will, what next?’ So you'll be wanting some more, then?’ “I don’t think we need to hear any more of your business dealings, thank you very
Sirius pushes away his empty plate and turning to look at Harry . The atmosphere changed with the rapidity Harry associated with the arrival of dementors . Lupin, who had been about to take a sip of wine, lowered his goblet slowly, looking wary .
“You’re too young,” said Mrs. Weasley . “It’s not my fault you haven’t been told what the Order’s doing,” said Sirius calmly .
“He’s only fifteen and — and he’s dealt with as much as most in the Order of the Phoenix!” said Mrs. Weasley . “I’m perfectly clear who he is, thanks, Molly!” asked Sirius .
Mr. Weasley did not speak at once. He took off his glasses and cleaned them slowly on his robes, not looking at his wife . “I think it better that Harry gets the facts — not all the facts, Molly, but the general picture,” said Lupin quietly, looking away from Sirius at last .
“I think Harry ought to be allowed a say in this,” Lupin continued . “I want to know what’s been going on,” Harry said at once . He had been touched by what she had said about his being as good as a son .
Lupin hurried off to the portrait to restore calm . It was only after Harry had returned, closing the kitchen door behind him and taking his seat at the table again, that Sirius spoke . “More than he thinks we do anyway,” said Sirius .
“You made sure Dumbledore knew at once,” said Lupin . “How has that helped?” said Bill incredulously. “What’s the Order been doing?” said Harry .
“You saw Cornelius Fudge after You-Know-Who came back, Harry. Well, he’s absolutely refusing to believe it’s happened.” “But why?” said Harry desperately . “Fudge is frightened of him, you see,” said Harry incredulously .
“You see the problem,” said Sirius bitterly . “You’re telling people, aren’t you?” said Harry, looking around at Mr. Weasley .
“We’ve managed to convince a couple of people, though,” said Mr. Weasley . He’s in charge of the hunt for Sirius, so he’s been feeding the Ministry information that Sirius is in Tibet” . “Why d’you think Dumbledore's in such trouble?” said Sirius .
Sirius and Lupin exchange the most fleeting of looks before Sirius said, “Stuff he can only get by stealth” Sirius replied, “Like what kind of weapon?” Sirius asked swiftly . Mrs. Weasley spoke from the shadows beside the door .
Mrs. Weasley beckoned imperiously to her sons and Hermione . “I want you all to go straight to bed, no talking,” she said . The Noble and Most Ancient House of Black Mrs. Sheasley followed them upstairs looking grim .
“I forgot. I forgot....” He crossed to the door and bolted it . “You don’t want to wake up and find him prowling around your room. Anyway ...” He got into his bed, settled down under the covers, then turned to look at Harry in the darkness . There was a sharp intake of breath from Harry firmly .
“What d’you reckon it is?” said Harry . “Maybe it’s something that can kill loads of people at once,” said Ron fearfully .
Mrs. Weasley was listening to see whether they were talking or not . The floorboard creaked again and they heard her heading upstairs to check on Fred and George . "She doesn’t trust us at all, you know," said Ron regretfully .
Harry and Ron entered the drawing room, a long, high-ceilinged room on the first floor . Mrs. Weasley, Hermione, Ginny, Fred, and George were grouped . Each of them was holding a large bottle of black liquid with a nozzle at the end .
Sirius and Mrs. Weasley were both speaking in carefully light, polite voices that told Harry quite plainly that neither had forgotten their disagreement of the night before . A loud, clanging bell sounded from downstairs, followed at once by the cacophony of screams and wails that had been triggered by Tonks knocking over the umbrella stand . Sirius had obviously managed to shut the curtains over his mother’s portrait because she had stopped screaming .
Harry had been spraying only a few seconds when a fully grown doxy came soaring out of a fold in the material, shiny beetlelike wings whirring, tiny needle-sharp teeth bared . Harry caught it full in the face with a blast of Doxycide; it froze in midair and fell onto the worn carpet below .
Fred and I have been developing them this summer . They’re double-ended, color-coded chews . Moment you’ve been rushed out of the lesson for the hospital wing, you swallow the purple half .
Harry had forced the twins to take the thousand-Galleon prize money he had won in the Triwizard Tournament to help them realize their ambition to open a joke shop . Mrs. Weasley removed her protective scarf, sank into a sagging armchair, and sprang up again with a cry of disgust, having sat on the bag of dead rats .
“Mundungus is talking to Sirius and Kingsley,” Fred muttered, frowning with concentration . Mrs. Black’s screaming had stopped again. “Might be worth it,” said George .
Mrs. Weasley’s voice was lost amid fresh shrieks and screams from the portraits in the hall . George made to shut the door to drown the noise, but before he could do so, a house-elf edged into the room . Except for the filthy rag tied like a loincloth around its middle, it was completely naked .
Harry didn’t know whether to laugh or not . The elf straightened up, eyeing them all very malevolently, and apparently convinced that they could not hear him . “This is Harry, Kreacher,” said Hermione tentatively .
Kreacher's eyes darted onto George . “Kreacher is cleaning,” he said evasively . Sirius had come back; he was glowering at the elf .
Sirius casts a disdainful look at the opposite wall . It seemed that Kreacher did not dare disobey a direct order; nevertheless, the look he gave as he shuffled out past him was redolent of deepest loathing . Sirius slammed the door shut on the elf .
Sirius walked across the room, where the tapestry Kreacher had been trying to protect hung the length of the wall . It looked immensely old; it was faded and looked as though doxies had gnawed it in places . The golden thread with which it was embroidered still glinted brightly enough to show them a sprawling family tree dating back (as far as Harry could tell)
Sirius jabbed a finger at the bottom of the tree, at the name REGULUS BLACK . “He was younger than me,” said Sirius, “and a much better son, as I was constantly reminded.” “But he died,” said Harry .
“Oh no, Regulus was murdered by Voldemort,” said Sirius . “I haven’t looked at this for years. There’s Phineas Nigellus ... my great-great-grandfather, see?” Sirius said .
Sirius mimed blasting the tapestry with a wand and laughed sourly . He was too busy staring at the names to the right of Andromeda’s burn mark . A double line of gold embroidery linked Narcissa Black with Lucius Malfoy .
Harry had seen Bellatrix Lestrange inside Dumbledore’s Pensieve . She had stood at her trial and proclaimed her continuing allegiance to Lord Voldemort . “Does it matter if she’s my cousin?” snapped Sirius . He turned away from the tapestry, his hands deep in his pockets .
Dumbledore’s Secret-Keeper for the Order, you know . Nobody can find headquarters unless he tells them personally where it is . “If my parents could see the use it was being put to now ... well, my mother’s portrait should give you some idea,” Sirius said .
Sirius and Harry went to join the Dursleys . Harry tried his best not to think about the hearing while they emptied glass cabinets . Sirius sustained a bad bite from a silver snuffbox .
Sirius smashed the silver instrument with a heavy book entitled Nature’s Nobility: A Wizarding Genealogy . There was a musical box that emitted a faintly sinister, tinkling tune when wound, and they all found themselves becoming curiously weak and sleepy until Ginny had the sense to slam the lid shut . In a dusty box, an Order of Merlin, First Class, had been awarded to Sirius’s grandfather for “Services to the
Sirius hurriedly left the room to make a cup of tea and did not return for an hour and a half . Sirius, ignoring Hermione’s protests, seized Kreacher by the back of his loincloth and threw him bodily from the room .
Harry and the others attempted to eavesdrop on the visitor . Snape flitted in and out of the house several times more, though to Harry’s relief they never came face-to-face . Tonks joined them for a memorable afternoon in which they found a murderous old ghoul lurking in an upstairs toilet . Lupin, who was staying in the house with Sirius but who left it for long periods to do mysterious work for the Order, helped them repair a grandfather clock that
Fear jabbed at his insides like needles as he wondered what was going to happen to him if he was expelled . The idea was so terrible that he did not dare voice it aloud, not even to Ron and Hermione, who followed his lead in not mentioning it . He would come back here to Grimmauld Place and live with Sirius .
Sirius stabbed moodily at a potato with his fork . The thought that Dumbledore had been in the house on the eve of his hearing made him feel, if that were possible, even worse.
Mr. Weasley, Sirius, Lupin, and Tonks were sitting there almost as though they were waiting for him . She leapt to her feet the moment he entered . “I’ve b-b-been up all night,” she said, with another shuddering yawn .
“I’m okay, I’ve got a report to finish anyway....” Mr. Weasley was not wearing wizard’s robes but a pair of pinstriped trousers and an old bomber jacket . “Amelia Bones is okay, Harry,” said Harry earnestly .
“You’ll be all right, Harry,” said Tonks, patting him on the arm . “And if it’s not,” said Sirius grimly, “I’ll see to Amelia Bones for you.” “Well ... see you later then.” Harry followed Mr. Weasley upstairs and along the hall .
Mr. Weasley bought tickets instead from a sleepy-looking guard . They got off at a station in the very heart of London, swept from the train in a tide of besuited men and women carrying briefcases . Harry thought they had gotten off at the wrong station despite his continual references to the Underground map . The farther they walked, the smaller and less imposing buildings became .
Mr. Weasley reached past Harry for the receiver . Harry was jammed against the telephone apparatus, which was hanging crookedly from the wall as though a vandal had tried to rip it off . He dialed the number, “two ... four ... and another four ...” .
The door of the telephone box sprang open and Mr. Weasley stepped out of it, followed by Harry, whose mouth had fallen open . The peacock-blue ceiling was inlaid with gleaming golden symbols that were continually moving and changing like some enormous heavenly notice board .
All proceeds from the Fountain of Magical Brethren will be given to St. Mungo’s Hospital for Magical Maladies and Injuries . A badly shaven wizard in peacock-blue robes looked up as they approached .
“Wand,” grunted the wizard at Harry, putting down the golden instrument and holding out his hand . The wizard dropped it onto a strange brass instrument, which looked something like a set of scales with only one dish . A narrow strip of parchment came speeding out of a slit in the base . “You get this back,” said the wizard slowly .
The golden grille slid back and Harry and Mr. Weasley moved inside it with the rest of the crowd . Harry stared at his feet to avoid catching anyone’s eye, flattening his fringe as he did so .
The memos flapped around the swaying lamp in the lift’s ceiling . When doors opened, two of the memos zoomed out with a few more witches and wizards . The other memos continued to soar around the lamp as the lift judged upward again .
Harry looked surreptitiously through the doorways as they passed . The Aurors had covered their cubicle walls with everything from pictures of wizards to posters of their favorite Quidditch teams . Sirius’s face was blinking down at him from every direction .
Kingsley tipped Harry an enormous wink and added, in a whisper, “Give him the magazine, he might find it interesting.” Then he said in normal tones, “And don’t take too long, Weasley, the delay on that firelegs report held our investigation up for a month.” “And I’m afraid you’ll have to wait for information on Muggle vehicles, we’re extremely busy at the moment,” said Mr. Wesley coolly.
Harry squeezed himself into the chair behind Perkins’ desk while Mr. Weasley rifled through the sheaf of parchment Kingsley Shacklebolt had given him . A memo had just zoomed in through the open door and fluttered to rest on top of the hiccuping toaster . The poor things keep calling in those pumbles, I think they’re called .
A stooped, timid-looking old wizard with fluffy white hair had just entered the room, panting . “Oh Arthur!” he said desperately, without looking at Harry. “I know about the regurgitating toilet,” said Mr. Weasley.
Mr. Weasley cursed furiously and pummelled the number nine button . The plump witch got out and a sallow-skinned wizard with a very mournful face got in . Harry barely had emotion to spare for Bode .
Harry's heart was beating a violent tattoo against his Adam’s apple . He swallowed hard, turned the heavy iron door handle, and stepped inside the courtroom . They had been talking in low voices, but as the heavy door closed behind Harry an ominous silence fell .
Cornelius Fudge was a portly man who often sported a lime-green bowler hat . A broad, square-jawed witch with very short gray hair sat on Fudge’s left . She wore a monocle and looked forbidding .
"Disciplinary hearing of the twelfth of August," says Fudge in a ringing voice . Percy began taking notes at once, "into offenses committed under the Decree for the Reasonable Restriction of Underage Sorcery"
“I must have missed it,” said Dumbledore cheerfully . “I suppose we’ll need another chair — I — Weasley, could you — ?” he said . The Wizengamot was still muttering and fidgeting restlessly .
“Yes, but —” The witch with the monocle on Fudge’s left cut across him in a booming voice . “Your Patronus had a clearly defined form? I mean to say, it was more than vapor or smoke?” said Harry .
“I did it because of the dementors!” he said loudly, before anyone could interrupt him again . “I’m sorry to interrupt what I’m sure would have been a very well-rehearsed story —” said Harry .
“I may be wrong,” said Dumbledore pleasantly, but I am sure that under the Wizengamot Charter of Rights, the accused has the right to present witnesses for his or her case? Isn’t that the policy of the Department of Magical Law Enforcement, Madam Bones?
“I’m a Squib,” said Mrs. Figg, in a bored and lofty voice . Madam Bones narrowed her eyes so that the monocle’s edges disappeared into her flesh . “Well, one was very large and the other one rather skinny —” she said.
Madam Bones felt a horrible sinking in the pit of his stomach . Harry felt the most she had ever seen was a picture of a dementor . “I see. Anything else?” said Mrs. Figg .
Madam Bones looked down at Mrs. Figg in silence . “That’s what you saw, is it?” Fudge replied . "I don’t think any of us believe the dementors were there by coincidence,” said Dumbledore lightly .
“I have already given you my views on this matter, Cornelius.” “Yes, you have,” said Fudge forcefully . “The dementors remain in place in Azkaban and are doing everything we ask them to.” “Then,” said Dumbledore .
"Of course, these particular dementors may have been outside Ministry control," said Dumbledore politely . "I was merely expressing my confidence that this matter will not go uninvestigated," said Uncle Vernon .
Clause 7 of the Decree states that magic may be used before Muggles in exceptional circumstances . "Of course you are," said Dumbledore courteously . “I — that — not —” blustered Fudge, fiddling with papers before him .
“The house-elf in question is currently in the employ of Hogwarts School,” said Dumbledore . “I — not — I haven’t got time to listen to house-elves! Anyway, that’s not the only — he blew up his aunt, for God’s sake!” Fudge shouted .
"Of course they can," said Dumbledore, inclining his head . Fudge turned a slightly deeper shade of puce . The toadlike witch on his right, however, merely gazed at her face .
Harry wanted to look up at the judges, but found that it was really much, much easier to keep examining his laces . Madam Bones’s booming voice jerked upward. There were hands in the air, many of them ... more than half! The witch on his right and the heavily mustached wizard and the frizzy-haired witch in the second row .
Harry remained sitting where he was in the chained chair, struggling with his feelings of shock and relief . The Wizengamot were all getting to their feet, talking, and gathering up their papers and packing them away . Harry stood up. Nobody seemed to be paying him the slightest bit of attention except the toadlike witch on Fudge’s right .
Cornelius Fudge and the toadlike witch were almost the last to leave the dungeon . Fudge acted as though Mr. Weasley and Harry were part of the wall . The witch looked almost appraisingly at Harry as she passed .
Lucius Malfoy broke off in mid-conversation, his cold gray eyes narrowed and fixed upon Harry’s face . “Well, well, well ... Patronus Potter,” said Lucius Malta . Harry had last seen those cool gray eyes through slits in a Death Eater’s hood .
Harry and Mr. Weasley strode off together, talking in low voices . “Why wasn’t he waiting outside Fudge’s office if they’ve got business to do together?” Harry burst out furious .
Harry says Fudge is acting of his own accord at the moment . The doors slid open and they stepped out into the now almost-deserted Atrium . Harry looked up into the handsome wizard’s face, but up close, Harry thought he looked rather weak and foolish .
Mrs. Weasley was wiping her face on her apron . Sirius, Lucius Malfoy was at the Ministry . “That’s enough, settle down!” said Sirius sharply .
“I wish he’d talked to me, though. Or even looked at me.” And as he thought this, the scar on his forehead burned so badly that he clapped his hand to it . “He’s really very busy at the moment,” said Mrs. Weasley . Sirius had put up a very good show of happiness on first hearing the news .
Harry confided some of his feelings to her and Ron while they scrubbed out a moldy cupboard on the third floor a few days later . “You belong at Hogwarts and Sirius knows it. Personally, I think he’s being selfish,” said Ron, frowning as he attempted to prize off a bit of mold that had attached itself firmly to his finger . „He’ll have company!” said Hermione .
Ron muttered irritably, but only so Harry could hear him . It would be a treat to leave this dusty, musty house, where half of cupboards were still bolted shut . Harry was careful not to say any of this within earshot of Sirius .
Harry threw one of the envelopes up to Ron, who was standing on a chair . It contained two pieces of parchment, one the usual reminder that term started on the first of September . Fred and George Apparated right beside Harry .
“What’s the matter?” said Fred impatiently, staring incredulously at the letter . “No way,” said George in a hushed voice. “There’s been a mistake,” said Fred .
Hermione spotted the badge in Harry’s hand and let out a shriek . “I knew it!” she said excitedly, brandishing her letter . "I ... well ... wow! Well done, Ron! That’s really —” said George .
“His ... but ... Ron, you’re not... ?” Ron held up his badge . Mrs. Weasley let out a shriek just like Hermione’s . “What are Fred and I, next-door neighbors?” said George indignantly .
“I’d better get going if I’ve got a broom to buy too.” Mrs. Weasley hesitated, then smiled . “Oh, shut up,” said Fred in a falsely anxious voice. “Going to put us in detention?” said Hermione angrily .
“Don’t pay any attention to them, Ron, they’re only jealous!” said Ron doubtfully . “They’ve always said only prats become prefects.” “I wish I could go with Mum and choose. There’s the new Cleansweep out, that’d be great.” Harry dashed from the room, leaving Harry and Hermione alone .
Harry had forgotten completely about prefects being chosen in the fifth year . He had been too anxious about the possibility of being expelled to spare a thought for the fact that badges must be winging their way toward certain people . But if he had thought about it, what would he have expected? Not this, said a small and truthful voice inside his head .
Harry argued with himself. They didn’t take on Riddle and the basilisk . They weren’t in that graveyard with me, the night Voldemort returned . I’ve definitely done more, Harry thought indignantly . Maybe Dumbledore doesn’t choose prefects because they’ve got themselves into a load of dangerous situations .
Harry noticed that Ron kept moving his prefect’s badge around . Fred and George dropped in and offered to attach it to his forehead with a Permanent Sticking Charm . Mrs. Weasley returned from Diagon Alley around six o’clock, laden with books .
Sirius, Lupin, Tonks, and Kingsley Shacklebolt were already there . Mad-Eye Moody’s electric-blue eye swiveled upward and stared fixedly through the ceiling . “No, no, I’ll do it myself later,” beamed Mrs. Weasley .
Ron and Hermione beamed as everyone drank to them and applauded . Her hair was tomato-red and waist length today; she looked like Ginny’s older sister . Sirius, who was right beside Harry, let out his usual barklike laugh .
The Comet Two Ninety’s only naught to sixty is with a decent tailwind according to Which Broomstick? Hermione was talking very earnestly to Lupin about her view of elf rights . It all stems from this horrible thing wizards have of thinking they’re superior to other creatures .
“I’m sorry, lads, but I’m not taking a Knut under twenty.” “Yeah, his best one so far has been six Sickles for a bag of knarl quills,” said George. “But Moody could have his eye on you,” Harry pointed out. “We’d better get these upstairs....” said Harry .
Harry followed Mundungus back toward the table, though not remotely hungry . Mad-Eye Moody was sniffing at a chicken leg with what remained of his nose . He then tore a strip off it with his teeth . “You all right, Harry, dear,” lied Harry .
“There’s me,” said Moody unnecessarily, pointing at himself . The Moody in the picture was unmistakable, though his hair was slightly less gray and his nose was intact . “And there’s Dumbledore beside me, Dedalus Diggle on the other side ... That’s Frank and Alice Longbottom, she was killed two weeks after this was taken, they got her whole family ...” Harry’s stomach, already uncomfortable, clen
Harry recognized at once as Wormtail: He was the one who had betrayed their whereabouts to Voldemort . He was spared the trouble of inventing an object he had not packed; Sirius had just said, “What’s that you’ve got there, Mad-Eye?” and Moody had turned toward him . Harry had seen his parents’ pictures before, after all, and he was least expecting it . The Longbottoms, who had been tortured into madness
Harry climbed the remaining stairs two at a time, walked across the landing . Someone was cowering against the dark wall, her wand in her hand, her whole body shaking with sobs . Sprawled on the dusty old carpet in a patch of moonlight, clearly dead, was Ron . All the air seemed to vanish from Harry’s lungs; his brain turned icy cold .
Lupin looked from Mrs. Weasley to Harry on the floor and seemed to understand in an instant . He waved his wand once more and the orb vanished in a puff of smoke . “Molly, it was just a boggart,” said Lupin bleakly .
“This isn’t like last time. The Order is better prepared, we’ve got a head start, we know what Voldemort’s up to —” Mrs. Weasley gave a little squeak of fright at the sound of the name . “We’re much better off than we were last time, you weren’t in the Order then, you don’t understand,” said Sirius abruptly .
Harry felt older than he had ever felt in his life . Mrs. Weasley sobbed over Kreacher’s dead body watched by Ron and Hermione . Harry awoke abruptly with his scar prickling to find Ron already dressed and talking to him .
Mrs. Weasley bellowed and Hermione jumped as though scalded and hurried out of the room . Harry seized Hedwig, stuffed her unceremoniously into her cage . Mrs. Black’s portrait was howling with rage but nobody was bothering to close the curtains over her .
Mrs. Weasley averted her eyes from the lolloping black dog beside Harry . Mrs. Black’s screeches were cut off instantly . “Where’s Tonks?” Harry said .
Sirius had been trapped inside for a very long time . Mrs. Weasley pursed her lips in an almost Aunt Petunia-ish way . It took them twenty minutes to reach King’s Cross by foot .
“I’ll still be reporting Sturgis to Dumbledore,” said Moody . “Well, look after yourselves,” said Lupin, shaking Harry’s hand too .
Harry and Hermione disappeared down the corridor to the right . “We’re — well— Ron and I are supposed to go into the prefect carriage,” Ron said . He seemed to have become intensely interested in the fingernails on his left hand .
Harry had met this behavior in five consecutive carriages . In the very last carriage they met Neville Longbottom, Harry’s fellow fifth-year Gryffindor, his round face shining with the effort of pulling his trunk along and maintaining a one-handed grip on his struggling toad, Trevor . “Hi, Harry,” said Ginny .
Harry and Neville stowed the three trunks and Hedwig’s cage in the luggage rack and sat down . The girl called Luna watched them over her upside-down magazine .
Harry remembers the marblelike device Neville’s grandmother sent him in an effort to improve his abysmal memory . He dug the hand that wasn’t keeping a firm grip on Trevor into his schoolbag . It was pulsating slightly, giving it the rather sinister look of some diseased internal organ .
Neville held the Mimbulus mimbletonia up to his eyes, his tongue between his teeth, chose his spot and gave the plant a sharp prod with the tip of his quill . Liquid squirted from every boil on the plant; they hit the ceiling, the windows, and spattered Luna Lovegood’s magazine . Neville, whose face and torso were also drenched, shook his head to get the worst out of his eyes .
Harry, Ginny, and Neville had finished their Pumpkin Pasties . They were busy swapping Chocolate Frog cards when the compartment door slid open . He ripped open the wrapper, bit off the Frog’s head, and leaned back with his eyes closed .
“You went to the Yule Ball with Padma Patil,” said Hermione . “She doesn’t think you treated her very well, because you wouldn’t dance with her,” Luna said .
Ron lowered his voice to Goyle’s low grunt and mimed writing in midair . “I ... must ... not ... look ... like... a ... baboon’s ... backside. ...” Everyone laughed, but nobody laughed harder than Luna Lovegood. “That was funny!” Her prominent eyes swam with tears as she gasped for breath .
Harry had to read this sentence several times before he was convinced that he had not misunderstood it . For fourteen years Sirius Black has been believed guilty of the mass murder of twelve innocent Muggles and one wizard .
Cornelius Fudge, the Minister of Magic, denied he had any plans to take over the running of the Wizarding Bank, Gringotts . Sources close to the Minister have disclosed that Fudge’s dearest ambition is to seize control of the goblin gold supplies .
Harry flicked through the rest of the magazine . Pausing every few pages he read an accusation that the Tutshill Tornados were winning the Quidditch League by a combination of blackmail, illegal broom-tampering, and torture . An article on ancient runes, which at least explained why Luna had been reading The Quibbler upside down .
"You see, I, unlike you, have been made a prefect," drawled Harry . "You, unlike me, are a git, so get out and leave us alone," Malfoy replied sharply . “I seem to have touched a nerve,” said Harry, smirking .
The weather remained undecided as they traveled farther and farther north . When darkness fell and lamps came on inside the carriages, Luna rolled up The Quibbler . She and Ron pinned their prefect badges carefully to their chests . The train began to slow down and they heard the usual racket up and down it .
Harry and Ginny became separated as they moved off along the platform and out through the station . Harry shuffled slowly through a narrow doorway onto the road outside with the rest of the crowd . He looked around for Ron or Hermione, wanting to know what they thought about the reappearance of Professor Grubbly-Plank .
The coaches were no longer horseless . They were completely fleshless, their black coats clinging to their skeletons . Their heads were dragonish, and their pupil-less eyes staring .
“What are those things, d’you reckon?” Ron asked Ron, nodding at the horrible horses as the other students surged past them . “He’s a sweet little owl, isn’t he?” she said .
Harry felt utterly bewildered. The horse was there in front of him, gleaming solidly in the dim light issuing from the station windows behind them . But unless Ron was faking — and it was a very feeble joke if he was — Ron could not see it at all . “You’re not going mad or anything. I can see them too.” said Harry desperately, turning to Luna .
Harry glared at Hermione; she quickly said, “Erm ... yes ... he’s very good.” Luna did not seem perturbed by Ron’s rudeness; on the contrary, she simply watched him for a while as though he were a mildly interesting television program . When they passed between the tall stone pillars topped with winged boars on either side of the gates to the school grounds, Harry leaned forward to try and see whether there were any lights on in
Harry, Ron, Hermione, and Neville found seats together about halfway down the table between Nearly Headless Nick and Parvati Patil and Lavender Brown . “Of course he hasn’t,” said Harry firmly. “But where is he, then?” said Ron firmly .
“Maybe he’s not back yet,” said Ron, sounding reassured . Hermione bit her lip, looking up and down the staff table as though hoping for conclusive explanation of Hagrid’s absence . “It’s that Umbridge woman!” said Harry .
Professor McGonagall was carrying a stool on which sat an ancient wizard’s hat . The first years lined up in front of the staff table facing the rest of the students . A small boy right in the middle of the row looked as though he was trembling . In times of old when I was new And Hogwarts barely started .
Said Slytherin, “We’ll teach just those Whose ancestry is purest.” Said Gryffindor, “I'll teach the lot, And treat them just the same.” These differences caused little strife When first they came to light, For each of the four founders had A House in which they might Take only those they wanted . So, For instance, SLYtherin Took only pure-blood wizards Of great cunning, just like him, And only those of
This year I’ll go further, Listen closely to my song: Though condemned I am to split you Still I worry that it’s wrong, Though I must fulfill my duty And must quarter every year Still I wonder whether sorting May not bring the end I fear . Oh, know the perils, read the signs, The warning history shows, For our Hogwarts is in danger From external, deadly foes And we must unite inside her Or we’ll crumble from within . All across the Great Hall students were
Professor McGonagall lowered her eyes to her long piece of parchment and called out, “Abercrombie, Euan.” The terrified-looking boy Harry had noticed earlier stumbled forward and put the hat on his head; it was only prevented from falling right down to his shoulders by his very prominent ears . Slowly the long line of first years thinned; in the pause between the names and the Sorting Hat’s decisions, Harry could hear Ron’s stomach rumbling loudly .
“To our old hands — welcome back! There is a time for speech making, but this is not it. Tuck in!” Ron threw his long beard over his shoulder so as to keep it out of the way of his plate . The five long tables were groaning under joints and pies and dishes of vegetables, bread, sauces, and flagons of pumpkin juice . “Oh yes,” said Nearly Headless Nick .
"I would never dream of seeking an argument with the Bloody Baron," said Ron . Nearly Headless Nick looked highly affronted .
Harry, Ron, and Hermione exchanged smirks . He felt it was a better use of his time to eat his way steadily through his steak-and-kidney pie . Talking ceased immediately as all turned to face the headmaster .
No new teacher had ever interrupted Dumbledore before . Her voice was high-pitched, breathy, and little-girlish . All of the faces he could see looked rather taken aback at being addressed .
Professor Umbridge paused here and made a little bow to fellow staff members . Professor McGonagall’s dark eyebrows had contracted so that she looked positively hawklike . Harry saw her exchange a significant glance with Professor Sprout .
Dumbledore was chatting animatedly with her friends at the Ravenclaw table . Ernie Macmillan was still staring at Professor Umbridge, but he was glassy-eyed . Hermione seemed to be drinking in every word Umbridge spoke .
“You’re not telling me you enjoyed it?” Ron said quietly . “I said illuminating, not enjoyable,” said Hermione grimly . "How about ‘progress for progress’s sake must be discouraged’?
Harry had emerged from the Triwizard maze two months ago clutching the dead body of a fellow student and claiming to have seen Lord Voldemort return to power . He had reached the end of the corridor to the Gryffindor common room and had come to a halt in front of the portrait of the Fat Lady before he realized that he did not know the new password . “No password, no entrance,” she said loftily .
Harry waved the stunted little cactus he had shown them on the train . Neville asked as he placed his Mimbulus mimbletonia tenderly on his bedside cabinet . The Gryffindor common room looked as welcoming as ever .
Seamus turned away from his poster and pulled his own pajamas out of his trunk, still not looking at Harry . Seamus knew that Seamus’s mother was a witch and could not understand why she should have come over so Dursley-ish .
Dean, who had been bending over his trunk, tried to retrieve a slipper, went oddly still and Harry knew he was listening hard . “Don’t you have a go at my mother,” snapped Harry .
Seamus glared at Harry, then looked at Dean and Neville . “Anyone else’s parents got a problem with Harry?” Seamus said aggressively . "You don’t know my mother, she’ll weasel anything out of anyone!” Seamus snapped .
Harry felt a rush of gratitude toward Neville . Dean got out his wand, repaired the bed hangings, and fell silent . He felt shaken by the argument with Seamus .
Neville and Ron both gave Harry it’s-his-problem-not-yours looks, but Harry was not much consoled . "You look absolutely — oh for heaven’s sake," said Hermione grimly, taking down the sign .
“No, Lavender thinks so too,” Hermione said gloomily . “I told her to keep her big fat mouth shut about you, actually. And it would be quite nice if you stopped jumping down Ron’s and my throats, Harry,” said Harry .
A line of fourth-year Ravenclaws was crossing the entrance hall . They caught sight of Harry and hurried to form a tighter group . Hagrid was once again conspicuous only by his absence .
“I’d forgotten Wood had left,” said Hermione . “Still, it won’t hurt to have some new blood, will it?” said Ron . Hedwig was nowhere to be seen; his only correspondent was Sirius .
“Look at today!” groaned Ron grumpily, shoving his schedule under Fred’s nose . “You can have a bit of Nosebleed Nougat cheap if you like.” “Why’s it cheap?” said George .
“Half our year had minor breakdowns coming up to O.W.L.s,” said George . “Tears and tantrums... Patricia Stimpson kept coming over faint.” “That’s ’cause you put Bulbadox Powder in his pajamas,” said Fred .
“We’re not going to waste our last year here,” said Fred, looking affectionately around at the Great Hall . “You’re going to need all the ingredients and materials — and premises too, I suppose....” Harry did not look at the twins. He deliberately dropped his fork and dived down to retrieve it .
Harry and Ron avoided looking at each other . History of Magic was by common consent the most boring subject ever devised by Wizard-kind . Professor Binns had a wheezy, droning voice that was almost guaranteed to cause severe drowsiness within ten minutes, five in warm weather .
Harry, Ron, and Hermione chose a secluded corner under a heavily dripping balcony . They turned up the collars of their robes against the chilly September air and talking about what Snape was likely to set them in the first lesson of the year . Harry remembered the agony of trying to get her by herself to ask her to the Yule Ball .
Ron demanded suddenly, pointing at the front of Cho’s robes, to which a sky-blue badge emblazoned with a double gold T was pinned . “You don’t support them, do you?” “Yeah, I do,” said Cho coolly .
Ron and Hermione were bickering all the way down to Snape’s dungeon . They did not stop arguing, which gave Harry plenty of time to reflect that between Neville and Ron he would be lucky ever to have two minutes’ conversation with Cho that he could look back on without wanting to leave the country . She had been Cedric’s girlfriend; yet she was talking to him in a perfectly friendly way, not as though she thought him mad, or a liar
“Before we begin today’s lesson,” said Snape . “I expect you to scrape an ‘Acceptable’ in your O.W.L., or suffer my ... displeasure.” His gaze lingered this time upon Neville .
Harry, Ron, and Hermione predicted, Snape could hardly have set them a more difficult, fiddly potion . The ingredients had to be stirred exactly the right number of times, firstly in clockwise, then in counterclockwise directions . the heat of the flames on which it was simmering had to lowered to exactly the correct level for a specific number of minutes before the final ingredient was added .
Seamus was feverishly prodding the flames at the base of his cauldron . Hermione’s potion, however, was a shimmering mist of silver vapor . Snape stopped, looking down at Harry with a horrible smirk on his face .
Harry’s potion had been no worse than Ron’s, which was now giving off a foul odor of bad eggs . He stuffed his wand back into his bag and slumped down onto his seat . When at long last the bell rang, Harry was first out of the dungeon .
Ron and Hermione froze, looking angry and offended . He walked up the marble staircase two steps at a time, past the students hurrying toward lunch . The anger that had just flared so unexpectedly still blazed inside him .
Harry was the first to ascend the silver ladder that led to Sibyll Trelawney’s classroom when the bell rang . Divination was Harry’s least favorite class after Potions . A thin woman, heavily draped in shawls and glittering with strings of beads, she always reminded Harry of some kind of insect, with her glasses hugely magnifying her eyes .
“Good day,” said Professor Trelawney in her usual misty, dreamy voice . Harry broke off, feeling both annoyed and slightly ashamed of himself again . “You will find on the tables before you copies of The Dream Oracle, by Inigo Imago.
Harry was not cheered up when Professor Trelawney set them the task of keeping a dream diary for a month as homework . When the bell went, he and Ron led the way back down the ladder, Ron grumbling loudly . The class was quiet as it entered the room .
Harry shoved his wand back inside his bag and pulled out quill, ink, and parchment . Professor Umbridge rapped the blackboard again; the first message vanished . There was a dull murmur of assent throughout the class .
Harry turned to page five of his copy of Defensive Magical Theory . It was desperately dull, quite as bad as listening to Professor Binns . He felt his concentration sliding away from him; he soon read the same line half a dozen times without taking in more than the first few words . Next to him, Ron was absent-mindedly turning his quill over and over in his fingers, staring at the same spot on the page .
“Well, Miss Granger, I think the course aims are perfectly clear if you read them through carefully,” said Professor Umbridge in a voice of determined sweetness . There was a short silence in which many members of the class turned their heads to frown at the three courses aims still written on the blackboard . “We’re not going to use magic?” Ron ejaculated loudly .
Harry thrust his fist in the air; Professor Umbridge promptly turned away from him again . “Well, Mr. Thomas?” Professor umbridge said to Dean . „If we’re going to be attacked, it won’t be risk-free —” Dean said .
“Your hand is not up, Mr. Thomas!” trilled Professor Umbridge . She stared at Harry with a grimly satisfied expression on her face . “I repeat, as long as you have studied the theory hard enough —” said Harry .
Professor Umbridge stood up and leaned toward them, her stubby-fingered hands splayed on her desk . “He wasn’t dead,” said Harry angrily, “but yeah, he’s returned!” said Harry. “I saw him, I fought him!”
Professor Umbridge had raised her eyes and was staring at him without a trace of a fake smile on her face . Then she said, in her softest, most sweetly girlish voice, “Come here, Mr. Potter, dear.” He could feel the rest of the class holding its breath . He felt so angry he did not care what happened next .
“Why, it’s Potty Wee Potter!” cackled Peeves, allowing two of the inkwells to fall to the ground where they spattered the walls with ink . “Ooooh, Crackpot’s feeling cranky,” said Peevs . The door closed automatically behind him .
Professor McGonagall sat down behind her desk, frowning at Harry . “Have — what?” she repeated impatiently, indicating a tartan tin of cookies lying on top of one of the piles of papers on her desk . He sank into a chair opposite her and helped himself to a Ginger Newt .
Professor McGonagall said: “Every evening this week!” Harry repeated, horrified . “She is your teacher and has every right to give you detention. You will go to her room at five o’clock tomorrow for the first one .
Harry heard whispers all around him as he sat eating between Ron and Hermione . The funny thing was that none of the whisperers seemed to mind him overhearing what they were saying about him . “He reckons he dueled with You-Know-Who....” “What I don’t get,” said Harry in a shaking voice .
“Look, you don’t understand what it was like after it happened,” said Harry . “Which is the truth!” said Harry loudly. “I know it is, Harry, so will you please stop biting my head off?” said Hermione .
Hermione cried suddenly, making Harry and Ron jump . Crookshanks leapt off her, looking affronted . “How can he let that terrible woman teach us? And in our O.W.L. year too!” said Harry .
Hermione was squinting over into the far corner of the room, where Fred, George, and Lee Jordan were sitting at the center of a knot of innocent-looking first years . "No, I’m sorry, they’ve gone too far," she said, standing up and looking positively furious . “You know perfectly well that those are bits of Nosebleed Nougat or Puking Pastilles or —” “Fainting Fancies?” Harry suggested quietly .
“I-I think so,” said Harry kindly to a small dark-haired girl lying at his feet . “You can’t do this, what if you made one of them really ill?” said Fred .
Hermione thrust Fred’s clipboard and the bag of Fancies back into his arms and stalked back to her chair by the fire . "Oh, it’s no good, I can’t concentrate now. I’m going to bed," Hermimione said acidly . “You handled it fine by yourself,” Ron mumbled .
Ron waited until she had disappeared through the door to the girls’ dormitories . He rolled up the parchment on which he had written the title of Snape’s essay . Harry shook his head, thinking of the long essay on giant wars and the pain stabbed at him sharply .
Professor Flitwick and Professor McGonagall both spent the first fifteen minutes of their lessons lecturing the class on the importance of O.W.L.s. They then spent more than an hour reviewing Summoning Charms . It was the same, if not worse, in Transfiguration .
Hermione successfully vanished her snail on the third attempt, earning her a ten-point bonus for Gryffindor from Professor McGonagall . Harry and Ron spent their lunch hour in the library looking up the uses of moonstones in potion-making . By the time they reached Care of Magical Creatures in the afternoon, Harry’s head was aching again .
Pansy Parkinson gave a shriek of laughter, as the twigs on the table leapt into the air . Hermione said she had jumped up and down in eagerness to answer a question . “Oooooh!” said Harry, thoroughly irritating .
if angered they will gouge out human eyes with their fingers . The class surged forward around the trestle table . Draco Malfoy leaned across Harry and seized the largest bowtruckle .
Malfoy smirked over his shoulder at Harry, who suddenly felt sick . He hurried back around the table to Ron and Hermione, who were squatting on the grass . Harry pulled out parchment and quill, crouched down beside the others .
Harry dropped it; Crabbe and Goyle laughed still harder as the bowtruckle set off toward the forest . When the bell echoed distantly over the grounds Harry rolled up his bloodstained picture and marched off to Herbology with his hand wrapped in a handkerchief of Hermione’s and Malfoy’s derisive laughter still ringing in his ears .
Luna Lovegood was wearing what looked like a pair of orange radishes for earrings . Parvati and Lavender seemed to have noticed as they were both giggling and pointing at her earlobes . Harry asked Hermione as they made their way into class .
Ernie Macmillan had stepped up to him after a loud and angry voice said, “Oy, Potter! I personally believe you one hundred percent. My family have always stood firm behind Dumbledore, and so do I.” Harry’s words had certainly wiped the smile from Lavender Brown’s face and, as he turned to talk to Ron and Hermione, caught Seamus’s expression .
“Why ... oh yeah, Keeper tryouts!” “Now he remembers!” snarled Angelina . “I didn’t decide not to be there!” said Harry .
“Less than zero,” said Harry glumly, tipping lamb chops onto his plate and starting to eat . He swallowed a mouthful of potato and added, “Better try, though, hadn’t I? I’ll offer to do two more detentions or something, I dunno.” “What’s that got to do with our homework?” said Hermione, her eyebrows raised .
Umbridge? Er — before we start, I-I wanted to ask you a favor.” Her bulging eyes narrowed . Harry knew long before he reached the end of his sentence that it was no good . It is your punishment for spreading evil, nasty, attention-seeking stories, Mr. Potter .
Harry looked away from her, dropped his schoolbag beside the straight-backed chair, and sat down . She handed him a long, thin black quill with an unusually sharp point . “Oh, as long as it takes for the message to sink in,” said Umbridge sweetly .
Harry wrote the words on the parchment in what he soon realized was not ink, but his own blood . Again and again the words were cut into the back of his hand, healed, and then reappeared the next time he set quill to parchment . Darkness fell outside Umbridge’s window . He did not ask when he would be allowed to stop .
Ron, who had been fast asleep when Harry got back to the dormitory, muttered something about “doing other stuff” he bent low over his parchment, and scrawled a few words . It was another bad day for Harry; he was one of the worst in Transfiguration . He had to give up his lunch hour to complete the picture of the bowtruckle .
“I’m in detention!” Harry yelled after her as she stalked away . “At least it’s only lines,” said Hermione consolingly . "I can’t believe how much homework we’ve got,” said Ron .
Harry's third detention passed in the same way as the previous two, except that after two hours the words “I must not tell lies” did not fade from the back of Harry’s hand, but remained scratched there, oozing droplets of blood . Harry had never considered the possibility that there might be another teacher in the world he hated more than Snape, but as he walked back toward Gryffindor Tower he had to admit he found a contender .
Harry was lurking behind a statue of Lachlan the Lanky, clutching his broomstick . “I’m — I’m hiding from Fred and George, if you must know,” Ron said . "I’ve never seen you play Keeper, are you good?” Ron said.
“I wish I was going to be there,” said Harry bitterly, as they set off together toward the common room . “I thought you said she was giving you lines?” Harry hesitated, but after all, Ron had been honest with him .
Harry was not going to go to Dumbledore for help when he had not spoken to him once since last June . He was interrupted by the Fat Lady, who had been watching them sleepily and now burst out, “Are you going to give me the password or will I have to stay awake all night waiting for you to finish your conversation?” Friday dawned sullen and sodden as the rest of the week . Harry turned his mind to his more pressing problems, such as the mountainous pile of
Harry had a distant view of Gryffindor Quidditch team soaring up and down the pitch . It was impossible to tell which one was Ron at this distance . The cut in the back of his right hand opened and began to bleed afresh . I must not tell lies. Blood trickled down his wrist .
He had a most peculiar sensation somewhere around his midriff . He wrenched his arm out of her grip and leapt to his feet, staring at her . “Yes, it hurts, doesn’t it?” she said softly .
Harry noticed that several of the first years gathered around them bore unmistakable signs of recent nosebleeds . She was watching Ron over the rim of her goblet with a slight frown on her face . Vicky Frobisher and Geoffrey Hooper both flew better this evening .
Hermione sounded unconvinced . He could have her under the Imperius Curse, I suppose . "I think you ought to tell Dumbledore your scar hurt," she said .
It was the second time in two days he had been advised to go to Dumbledore . His answer to Hermione was just the same as his answer to Ron . “I’m not bothering him with this. Like you just said, it’s not a big deal. It’s been hurting on and off all summer — it was just a bit worse tonight,” said Harry .
Percy and Padfoot Harry was the first to awake in his dormitory next morning . The first week of term seemed to have dragged on forever, like one gigantic History of Magic lesson . He pulled open the curtains around his bed, got up, and started to dress .
Dear Snuffles, I’m really glad it’s the weekend . We’re all missing our biggest friend, we hope he’ll be back soon . Harry reread this letter several times, trying to see it from the point of view of an outsider .
Harry looked down and saw the caretaker’s skeletal gray cat, Mrs. Norris slinking past him . She turned lamplike yellow eyes upon him for a moment before disappearing behind a statue of Wilfred the Wistful . The sun was high in the sky now and when Harry entered the Owlery the glassless windows dazzled his eyes .
Harry watched her until she became a tiny black speck and vanished . He then switched his gaze to Hagrid’s hut, clearly visible from this window . A great, reptilian winged horse rose up out of the trees like a grotesque, giant bird .
Cho had selected one of the school barn owls . She coaxed it down onto her arm so that she could attach the parcel . “I didn’t see his tryout, though, I was in detention.” Cho looked up, the parcel only half-attached .
“I’ve had a tip-off that you are intending to place a massive order for Dungbombs!” Harry folded his arms and stared at the caretaker . “I have my sources,” said Filch in a self-satisfied hiss .
“You weren’t ordering Dungbombs, were you?” she said, as she carried the owl to the window . Harry shrugged; he was quite as mystified by that as she was, though, oddly, it was not bothering him very much at the moment . He walked on, feeling quietly elated. He had managed to have an entire conversation with her .
“Yeah, okay,” said Harry. “Look, I don’t think you should,” said Hermione seriously, “you’re both really behind on homework as it —” But she broke off; the morning post was arriving and, as usual, the Daily Prophet was soaring toward her in the beak of a screech owl . “No,” she sighed, “just some guff about the bass player in the Weird Sisters getting married....”
Sturgis Podmore, 38, of number two, Clapham, has appeared in front of the Wizengamot charged with trespass and attempted robbery at the Ministry of Magic on 31st August . he was convicted on both charges and sentenced to six months in Azkaban . “Sturgis, he’s that bloke who looks like his head’s been thatched, isn’t he? He’s one of the Ord 
“Don’t be silly, it wasn’t just for trying to get through a door?” breathed Hermione slowly . “Sturgis was supposed to come and see us off, remember?” The other two looked at him .
Ron and Harry walked down the sloping lawns toward the Quidditch pitch . Hermione’s dire warnings that they would fail all their O.W.L.s still ringing in their ears . “Still, this is important too, we’ve got plenty of time to do it all,” said Ron .
Harry thought Ron was pretty good; he blocked three-quarters of the goals Harry attempted to put past him and played better the longer they practiced . After a couple of hours they returned to the school, where they ate lunch . All their teammates but Angelina were already in the changing room when they entered .
The Slytherins, led by Malfoy, roared and screamed with laughter . Ron mounted his broom and kicked off from the ground and Harry followed him . “Exactly the attitude I want, Harry,” said Angelina approvingly .
Fred threw the Quaffle to Alicia, who passed back to George . It must be, what, a whole week since you were in the hospital wing, isn’t it? Fred passed to Angelina; she reverse passed to Harry, who had not been expecting it, but caught it in the very tips of his fingers and passed it quickly to Ron, who missed by inches .
Fred and George let fly the Bludger; from that moment on, Harry was barely aware of what the others were doing . It was his job to recapture the tiny fluttering golden ball worth a hundred and fifty points to the Seeker’s team . “Ron — you’re not covering your middle post!” screamed Angelina .
Harry glanced around at Fred, who was looking anxious and checking his pockets . He saw Fred pull out something purple, examine it for a second, and then look around at Katie . The Slytherins had set up a chant of “Gryffindor are losers, GryffindOR is losers” but there was a certain rigidity about her seat on the broom nonetheless .
Harry muttered to Ron as they laid aside Professor McGonagall’s long and difficult essay on the Inanimatus Conjurus spell . Hermione stomped off to the staircase to the boys’ dormitories and vanished from sight . “Well, I suppose he could’ve played better,” said Harry loyally .
Harry glanced over at her; she was sitting with Crookshanks on her lap and chatting merrily to Ginny as a pair of knitting needles flashed in midair in front of her . The sky outside the windows became steadily darker; slowly, the crowd in the common room began to thin again . At half-past eleven, Hermione wandered over to them, yawning, pointing over Ron’s shoulder at a line in his Astronomy
Ron unrolled the scroll and began to read . The farther down the parchment his eyes traveled, the more pronounced became his scowl . He thrust the letter at Harry and Hermione, who leaned toward each other to read it together .
I must tell you, Ron, that nothing could put you in danger of losing your badge more than continued fraternization with that boy . You do not want to be tarred with the same brush as Potter, it could be very damaging to your future prospects, and I am talking here about life after school too . It may be that you are afraid to sever ties with Potter . I know that he can be unbalanced and, for all I know, violent .
I am very sorry to hear that so far Professor Umbridge is encountering very little cooperation from staff as she strives to make those necessary changes within Hogwarts that the Ministry so ardently desires . I am sorry that I was unable to see more of you over the summer . It pains me to criticize our parents, but I am afraid I can no longer live under their roof while they remain mixed up with the dangerous crowd around Dumbledore .
“Oh yeah — ‘sever ties’ with me, I swear I won’t get violent.” “Give it back,” said Ron jerkily . “Come on, we’ve got to get this finished some time before dawn,” he said briskly to Harry, pulling Professor Sinistra’s essay back toward him .
Harry had known Percy for four years, had stayed in his house during the summers, shared a tent with him during the Quidditch World Cup, had even been awarded full marks by him in the second task of the Triwizard Tournament last year . Harry thought Sirius was probably the only person he knew who could really understand how he felt at the moment . He had just seen something in the fire that could not have been there. It had flashed into sight and vanished immediately .
“Er — Harry?” said Ron uncertainly. “Why are you down there?” “Because I’ve just seen Sirius’s head in the fire” said Harry . “You sound like Molly,” said Sirius. “This was the only way I could come up with of answering Harry’s letter without resorting to a code — and codes are breakable.”
“You didn’t say you’d written to Sirius!” said Hermione accusingly . “No, it was very good,” said Sirius .
Harry recalls shabbier Lupin’s comments about dangerous half-breeds . “What’s she got against werewolves?” said Hermione angrily .
“That’s exactly what he thinks you’re doing,” said Sirius . “So we’re being prevented from learning Defense Against the Dark Arts because Fudge is scared we’ll use spells against the Ministry?” said Hermione .
Harry, Ron, and Hermione exchanged worried looks . “Listen, don’t go asking too many questions about Hagrid,” Sirius said . He looked most displeased .
The Hogwarts High Inquisitor They had expected to have to comb Hermione’s Daily Prophet carefully next morning to find the article Percy had mentioned in his letter . The departing delivery owl had barely cleared the top of the milk jug . He let out a huge gasp and flattened the newspaper to reveal a photograph of Dolores Umbridge .
‘Dumbledore couldn’t find anyone, so the Minister put in Umbridge and of course, she’s been an immediate success —’ said Harry grimly . ‘This is an exciting new phase in the Minister’s plan to get to grips with what some are calling the “falling standards” at Hogwarts,’ said Weasley .
“I think the appointment of the Inquisitor is a first step toward ensuring that Hogwarts has a headmaster in whom we can all repose confidence,’ said a Ministry insider last night . “Hogwartes are a school, not an outpost of Cornelius Fudge’s office,’said Madam Marchbanks . ‘This is another disgusting attempt to discredit Albus Dumbledore’ .
Harry’s moonstone essay was handed back to him with a large, spiky black D scrawled in an upper corner . He smirked as Malfoy sniggered and said in a carrying whisper, “Some people got D’s? Ha!” Harry realized that Hermione was looking sideways to see what grade he had received . His Strengthening Solution was at least blue rather than pink, like Neville’s .
“I don’t — I didn’t mean — well, if you want to tell me —” “I got a P,” said Fred, ladling soup into his bowl . “Well, that’s nothing to be ashamed of” said Fred .
“No, E,” George corrected her, “E for ‘Exceeds Expectations.’ And I’ve always thought Fred and I should’ve got E in everything, because we exceeded expectations just by turning up for the exams.” They all laughed except Hermione, who plowed on, “So after E, it’s A for ‘Acceptable,’ and that’s the last pass grade, isn’t it?” “Yep,” said Fred, dunking an entire roll in his soup
Umbridge was pulling out his dream diary in a seat at the very back of the shadowy Divination room when Ron elbowed him in the ribs and, looking round, saw Professor Umbridge emerging through the trapdoor . The abrupt fall in the noise level made Professor Trelawney look round .
Professor Umbridge was making notes while Divination teacher questioned Neville about his dream diary . "I did it last time," Ron protested, “it’s your turn, you tell me one.” “Let’s say I dreamed I was ... drowning Snape in my cauldron. Yeah, that’ll do. I’ve got to add your age to the date you had the dream,” said Harry .
Professor Trelawney scowled at her, arms crossed and shoulders hunched as though wishing to protect herself from the indignity of the inspection . Professor Umbridge made a note on her clipboard .
Professor Trelawney pointed a shaking finger at Professor Umbridge who continued to smile blandly at her, eyebrows raised . “I am afraid ... I am afraid that you are in grave danger!” Professor Tre Lawney finished dramatically . Harry caught Ron’s eye and knew that Ron was thinking exactly the same as he was .
Harry and Ron told Hermione exactly what had happened in Divination . The class gave an audible sigh as it turned to page nineteen . Harry wondered dully whether there were enough chapters in the book to keep them reading .
Professor Umbridge’s eyebrows rose a little higher and her gaze became distinctly colder . Hermione, unlike Umbridge, was not whispering, but speaking in a clear, carrying voice that had by now attracted the rest of the class’s attention .
Harry muttered as he arrived at Gryffindor table for breakfast on Tuesday . He shouted so loudly that Professor McGonagall came sweeping down upon the pair of them from the staff table . Harry said, furious at this injustice. “I’m already being punished by her, why do you have to take points as well?”
"No, not another word of complaint, Potter! And as for you, Miss Johnson, you will confine your shouting matches to the Quidditch pitch in future or risk losing the team Captaincy!" Harry flung himself onto the bench beside Ron, fuming . Hermione, however, merely rustled the pages of her Daily Prophet .
Professor Umbridge used the same silly little cough she had used to interrupt Dumbledore on the first night of term . Seamus handed back Harry’s essay; Harry took it without looking at him and saw, to his relief, that he had managed an A . “Hem, hem,” said Professor McGonagall, turning her back firmly on Prof Umbridge .
The Vanishing Spell becomes more difficult with the complexity of the animal to be vanished . The snail, as an invertebrate, does not present much of a challenge; the mouse offers a much greater one . “How she can lecture me about not losing my temper with Umbridge!” Harry said to Ron under his voice, but he was grinning .
Professor Umbridge and her clipboard were waiting for them beside Professor Grubbly-Plank . Harry heard her ask as they arrived at the trestle table where the group of captive bowtruckles were scrabbling around for wood lice like so many living twigs . Malfoy was whispering with Crabbe and Goyle .
Professor Umbridge is returning to Professor Grubbly-Plank’s side after a lengthy interrogation of Dean Thomas . “Oh, yes, Dumbledore’s excellent,” said Professor G. Umbridge heartily .
“Another night’s detention, I think,” Professor Grubbly-Plank said softly . “You will be receiving the results of your inspection within ten days,” Professor Umbridge said . It was nearly midnight when Harry left Umbridge’s office that night .
“Well — learn Defense Against the Dark Arts ourselves,” said Hermione . “You want us to do extra work? D’you realize Harry and I are behind on homework again and it’s only the second week?” she groaned .
“No, no, I’m not talking about Lupin,” said Hermione . There was a moment’s silence. A light night breeze rattled the windowpanes behind Ron and the fire guttered . Then he turned to Ron, ready to exchange the exasperated looks they sometimes shared .
“You beat me in our third year — the only year we both sat the test and had a teacher who actually knew the subject,” Ron said to Hermione, smirking slightly . “You know what, I’m not sure I want someone this stupid teaching me,” Harry said, pulling a face like Goyle concentrating .
Crookshanks streaked away under a sofa; Ron and Hermione’s smiles had vanished . “You — neither of you — you’ve never had to face him, have you? You think it’s just memorizing a bunch of spells and throwing them at him, like you’re in class or something? The whole time you know there’s nothing between you and dying except your own brain or guts or whatever — like you can think straight when you know you
It was the first time she had ever said Voldemort’s name . It was this, more than anything else, that calmed Harry . He wished he had not smashed the bowl of murtlap essence . “Well, think about it,” said Hermione quietly .
Harry’s detentions with Umbridge were finally over . Hermione doubted whether the words now etched on the back of his hand would ever fade entirely . Ron had had four more Quidditch practices and not been shouted at during the last two .
“I thought it was a good idea from the start,” said Ron . “You did listen to what I said about a load of it being luck, didn’t you?” Hermione said gently .
Harry considered this for a moment, then said, “Yeah, but I doubt anyone except you two would want to be taught by me” Ron, who was still watching her with a frown on his face, leaned forward to listen too, “you know the first weekend in October’s a Hogsmeade weekend? How would it be if we tell anyone who’s interested to meet us in the village and we can talk it over?” Ron said .
Ron scowled at Ron, but otherwise ignored the slight on Kreacher . "I don’t reckon he’d be stupid enough to turn up," Ron bracingly said . “You’ve got enough on your plate without Sirius too.” Hermione said quietly.
Harry had to admit that she was getting better; it was now almost always possible to distinguish between the hats and the socks . When Harry reached Filch, the caretaker gave a great sniff as though trying to detect a whiff of something from Harry . And Harry walked on, out onto the stone steps and the cold, sunlit day .
They walked between the tall stone pillars topped with winged boars and turned left onto the road into Hogsmeade . “Well, come on,” said Hermione slightly nervously .
Harry remembered Hagrid mentioning this pub in his first year . Hagrid had won a dragons egg from a hooded stranger there . There was a man at the bar wrapped in dirty gray bandages . Harry was looking particularly at the heavily veiled witch .
Harry, Ron, and Hermione retreated to the farthest table from the bar . He deposited Harry’s money in an ancient wooden till whose drawer slid open automatically to receive it . “We could order anything we liked in here, I bet that bloke would sell us anything, he wouldn’t care,” Harry said quietly .
“I told them to be here about now and I’m sure they all know where it is — oh look, this might be them now” The door of the pub had opened . A thick band of dusty sunlight split the room in two for a moment and then vanished, blocked by the incoming rush of a crowd .
“Hi, Harry,” said Neville, beaming and taking a seat opposite Harry . Harry tried to smile back, but did not speak; his mouth was exceptionally dry . He gave Harry a thoroughly mistrustful look that told Harry plainly that, given her way, she would not be here at all.
“Well ... erm ... well, you know why you’re here,” said Hermione . The group focused its attention on her instead, though eyes continued to dart back regularly to Harry . “I had the idea — that it might be good if people who wanted to study Defense Against the Dark Arts”
"Where’s the proof You-Know-Who’s back?" said the blond Hufflepuff player . "You mean, Dumbledore believes it —" said Ron rather rudely . “Zacharias Smith,” said the boy, “and I think we’ve got the right to know exactly what makes him say You .
“I don’t want to talk about Cedric Diggory, all right? So if that’s what you’re here for, you might as well clear out.” He cast an angry look in Hermione’s direction . “Is it true,” interrupted the girl with the long plait down her back, looking at Harry, “that you can produce a Patronus?” The phrase stirred something in Harry’s memory .
Harry was feeling slightly hot around the collar now; he was determinedly looking anywhere but at Cho . There was a murmur of impressed agreement around the table . The fact that Cho had just praised him made it much, much harder for him to say the thing he would tell them .
“No, okay, I know I did bits of it without help,” said Susan Bones . “Are you trying to weasel out of showing us any of this stuff?” said Zacharias Smith .
“No,” said Cho, “nor with ours,” added Zacharias Smith . “I’m sure we can find a night that suits everyone,” said Hermione . "Yes, he hasn’t,” said Luna solemnly .
“They don’t exist, Neville,” said Hermione tartly . “Oh yes they do!” said Luna angrily. “Hem, hem,” said Ginny in a good imitation of Professor Umbridge .
"Right, well, we’ll try to find somewhere," said Hermione . Fred reached out for the parchment and cheerfully put down his signature . "Er ... I’m sure Ernie will tell me when the meeting is," said Harry .
There was an odd feeling in the group now . It was as though they had just signed some kind of contract . The rest of the group took their leave too .
Harry and Ron followed Hermione along a row of quills in copper pots . Harry, whose head was still full of Cho’s parting wave, did not find this subject quite as interesting as Ron, who was positively quivering with indignation, but it did bring something home to him .
Hermione rolled her eyes at Harry and then said in an undertone, while Ron was muttering imprecations about Michael Corner . It was as though boiling water was rising rapidly inside him; a burning sensation that was causing his face to smart in the cold . Harry felt happier for the rest of the weekend than he had done all term .
Harry and Ron headed downstairs from their dormitory discussing Angelina’s idea that they were to work on a new move called the Sloth Grip Roll during that night’s Quidditch practice . A large sign had been affixed to the Gryffindor notice board, so large that it covered everything else on there . The new sign was printed in large black letters and there was a highly official-looking seal at the bottom beside a neat and curly signature .
Ron had thought they believed him, thought they even admired him . He bounded forward, pulled open the door and set off up the spiral staircase . There was a loud, wailing, klaxonlike sound and the steps melted together to make a long, smooth stone slide .
“I didn’t realize that would happen. It’s not fair!” he added to Harry, as the girls headed off for the portrait hole . “Well, it’s an old-fashioned rule,” said Hermione .
Neville, Dean, Fred, George, and Ginny descended upon Umbridge's sign . They were all looking at Harry. He glanced around to make sure there were no teachers near them . “We’re going to do it anyway, of course,” said George .
“It’s okay,” said Harry quietly, when she was near enough to hear him . “You realize she’s including Quidditch in this?” said Angelina . „We have to go and ask permission to re-form the Gryffindor team!” said Harry .
Harry slipped quietly off his chair, crouched down, and hurried along the row to the window, where he slid the catch and opened it very slowly . He had expected Hedwig to hold out her leg so that he could remove the letter and then fly off to the Owlery, but the moment the window was open wide enough she hopped inside, hooting dolefully .
Harry returned Hedwig to his shoulder and hurried off up the corridor . Professor Grubbly-Plank appeared at Professor McGonagall’s shoulder, smoking a pipe and holding a copy of the Daily Prophet . “It’s my owl, she’s injured,” said Harry .
Professor Grubbly-Plank stuck her pipe firmly between her teeth and took Hedwig from Harry while Professor McGonagall watched . Harry looked sharply at Harry and said, “Do you know how far this owl’s traveled, Potter?” “Er,” said Harry . “I should be able to sort this out if you leave her with me, Potter,” she said .
Professor McGonagall gave him a curt nod and retreated into the staffroom . Here he spotted Ron and Hermione already standing in a sheltered corner, their cloak collars turned up against the wind . “Is Hedwig okay?” asked Ron. “To Grubbly-Plank,” said Harry .
“I don’t know,” said Hermione anxiously, hitching her bag back over her shoulder as the bell rang again . They trudged down the stone steps to the dungeons for Potions, all three of them lost in thought, but as they reached the bottom of the stairs they were recalled to themselves by the voice of Draco Malfoy . “I mean, she knows my father really well, he’s always popping in and out of the Ministry, I don
A split second later he realized that Neville had just charged past him . “Help me!” Harry leapt forward and seized the back of Neville’s robes . Neville struggled frantically, his fists flailing, trying desperately to get at Malfoy .
Harry, Ron, and Hermione took their usual seats at the back of the class and pulled out parchment, quills, and their copies of One Thousand Magical Herbs and Fungi . When Snape closed the door with an echoing bang everybody fell silent immediately . “You will notice,” said Snape in his low, sneering voice, “that we have a guest with us today.” Professor Umbridge spent the first half hour of the lesson making notes in her corner .
Professor Umbridge scribbled on her clipboard . “You applied first for the Defense Against the Dark Arts post, I believe?” Snape asked. “Yes,” said Snape quietly, barely moving his lips .
Harry hastily dropped his gaze to his potion, which was now congealing foully . “No marks again, then, Potter,” said Snape furiously . It did not seem possible that he had awoken that morning feeling very happy .
Professor Trelawney slammed a copy of The Dream Oracle down on the table between Harry and Ron . She threw the next copy of the Oracle at Seamus and Dean, narrowly avoiding Seamus’s head . The class stared perplexedly at her and then at each other .
Professor Trelawney gulped, dabbed at her wet cheeks with the end of her shawl . She pulled a small, embroidered handkerchief from her sleeve, into which she blew her nose very hard with a sound like Peeves blowing a raspberry . "You and Umbridge have got something in common," Harry told Hermione .
“No Quidditch practice,” said Angelina in hollow tones when Harry, Ron, and Hermione entered the common room that night after dinner . “But I kept my temper!” said Harry, horrified. “She just said she needed a bit of time to consider.” “That’s a bright side, is it?” snapped Harry .
Lee Jordan, who was assisting the demonstration, was vanishing the vomit at regular intervals with the same Vanishing Spell Snape kept using on Harry’s potions . Hermione was not helping matters; the cheers and sound of vomit hitting the bottom of Fred and George’s bucket were punctuated by loud and disapproving sniffs that Harry found more distracting . "They’re quite within their rights to eat the foul things themselves," said Harry .
Harry, Ron, and Hermione finally had the common room to themselves again . At long last, Fred closed the doorway to the boys’ dormitories behind him . He gave a muffled grunt, awoke, looked blearily into the fire and said, “Sirius!” Harry whipped around; Sirius’s untidy dark head was sitting in the fire again. “How’re things?” said Sirius .
Sirius looked neither angry nor worried; on the contrary, he was looking at Harry with distinct pride . “Why was Dung hiding from us?” asked Sirius, sounding disappointed .
Sirius says you’ll be expelled for sure and your future will be ruined . She says there will be plenty of time to learn how to defend yourself later and that you are too young to be worrying about that right now . “I think learning to defend yourselves properly is a very good idea!” said Sirius impatiently .
"Well, better expelled and able to defend yourselves than sitting safely in school without a clue," said Sirius . “Well, it’s just that there were only four of you meeting in the Shrieking Shack?” suggested Hermione . There are twenty-eight of us and none is an Animagus .
Umbridge’s hand was still making snatching movements amongst the flames . Harry pointed his wand at the bullfrog that had been hopping hopefully toward the other side of the table . Charms was always one of the best lessons in which to enjoy a private chat .
Filch accused you of ordering Dungbombs, because it seemed such a stupid lie, Hermione whispered . "I mean, once your letter had been read, it would have been quite clear you weren’t ordering them, so you wouldn’t have been in trouble at all — it’s a bit of a feeble joke, isn’t it? I don’t think Filch would object, when's he ever stuck up for a student’s rights? Harry
“I don’t reckon he’ll risk it again,” said Ron . “He’s not stupid, he knows she nearly got him. Silencio!” The raven let out a derisive caw .
Hermione squeezed away from them, narrowly dodged an ink pellet from Peeves . Ron’s smile slipped slightly as he looked out of the window, which was now opaque with hammering rain . Her eyes were unfocused and there was a frown on her face . “About Siri ... Snuffles?” said Harry .
“Yes, that’s what made me think maybe it wasn’t a good idea after all....” Peeves floated over them on his stomach, peashooter at the ready; automatically all three of them lifted their bags to cover their heads until he had passed. “Let’s get this straight,” said Harry angrily, as they put their bags back on the floor, “Sirius agrees with us, so you don’t think we should do it anymore?” Hermione looked
Harry and Ron went down to Quidditch pitch for practice . They were soaked through within minutes, their feet slipping and sliding on the sodden grass . Fred and George debating whether to use one of their own Skiving Snackboxes to get out of flying .
Harry kicked off from the ground, spraying mud in all directions, and shot upward, the wind pulling him slightly off course . The wind was picking up; even at a distance Harry could hear the pounding sounds of the rain pummeling the surface of the lake . Angelina kept them at it for nearly an hour before conceding defeat .
Harry pressed the towel to his face, his eyes screwed tight with pain . The scar on his forehead had seared again, more painfully than in months . “What’s up?” said several voices . Harry emerged from behind his towel; the changing room was blurred because he was not wearing his glasses; but he could still tell that everyone’s face was turned toward him .
Harry shook his head and covered his eyes with his hands, pressing down upon them with his palms . “When your scar hurt in Umbridge’s office?” said Ron in a hushed voice . He thought back to the moment when his scar had hurt so badly in his and Ron’s bedroom .
Dumbledore said something like this was happening last year . He said that when Voldemort was near me, or when he was feeling hatred, I could tell . There was a pause. The wind and rain lashed at the building .
Voldemort’s anger would make sense if he was no nearer laying hands on the weapon, whatever it was . Harry came back to his senses just in time to clamber through the portrait hole into the common room . It appeared that Hermione had gone to bed early, leaving Crookshanks curled in a nearby chair and an assortment of knobbly, knitted elf hats lying on a table by the fire .
The book slipped from Harry’s slack grip and landed with a dull thud on the hearthrug . He was walking once more along a windowless corridor, his footsteps echoing in the silence . “Dobby has your owl, sir!” said Harry thickly, peering through the gloom toward the source of the voice .
Dobby sank into a deep bow so that his pencil-like nose brushed the threadbare surface of the hearthrug . Hedwig gave an indignant hoot and fluttered onto the arm of Harry’s chair . “Oh no, sir,” said Harry, stroking his head and blinking hard .
The elf surveyed Harry out of his vast, orblike eyes . Then he said very seriously, his ears drooping . “Dobby wishes he could help Harry Potter, for Harry Potter set Dobby free” . He bent and picked up his Potions book .
Dobby has hidden Winky in the Room of Requirement and he has found antidotes to butterbeer there, and a nice elf-sized bed to settle her on while she sleeps it off, sir . “It sounds brilliant,” said Harry, looking delighted at Harry’s enthusiasm .
“This is really important. I don’t want to blow it, it’ll need proper planning,” said Harry . The afternoon’s Care of Magical Creatures lesson was to be relocated to a free classroom on the ground floor .
Harry, Ron, and Hermione left the Gryffindor common room, clutching a certain piece of aged parchment in his hand . Five years were allowed to be out in the corridors until nine o’clock, but all three kept looking around nervously as they made their way up to the seventh floor . Tiny black moving dots, labeled with names, showed where various people were .
Ron had screwed up his eyes in concentration, Hermione was whispering something under her breath, Harry’s fists were clenched as he stared ahead of him . A highly polished door had appeared in the wall, Ron was staring at it, looking slightly wary . The walls were lined with wooden bookcases, and instead of chairs there were large silk cushions on the floor .
Harry looked around; Ginny, Neville, Lavender, Parvati, and Dean had arrived . "Whoa," said Dean, staring around, impressed . “I think we ought to elect a leader,” said Hermione .
“I think we should vote on it properly,” said Hermione, unperturbed . “All in favor of the D.A.?” said Ginny, kneeling up on her cushion .
Zacharias Smith opened his mouth stupidly . "I think Expelliarmus is exactly going to help us against You-Know-Who, do you?" Smith said . Neville was left partnerless. "You can practice with me," Harry told him .
Neville’s opponent was unlikely to be staring in the opposite direction with his wand held loosely at his side . Zacharias Smith took it in turns to disarm Anthony Goldstein, but Anthony did not seem to be making a sound . “Sorry, Harry,” said Fred hastily, when Harry caught his eye .
Cho moved off around the room again, stopping here and there to make suggestions . Slowly the general performance improved . He avoided going near Cho and her friend for a while, but after walking twice around every other pair in the room felt he could not ignore them any longer .
“Well, my father is very supportive of any anti-Ministry action!” said Luna Lovegood proudly from just behind Harry; evidently she had been eavesdropping on his conversation while Justin Finch-Fletchley attempted to disentangle himself from the robes that had flown up over his head . “He’s always saying he’d believe anything of Fudge, I mean, the number of goblins Fudge has had assassinated! And of course he uses the
He checked the Marauder’s Map carefully for signs of teachers on the seventh floor . He let them leave in threes and fours, watching their tiny dots anxiously to see that they returned safely to their dormitories . “That was really, really good, Harry,” said Hermione, when finally it was just her, Harry, and Ron .
Harry and the D.A. were resisting her under her nose, doing the very thing that she and the Ministry most feared . When he was supposed to be reading Wilbert Slinkhard’s book during her lessons he dwelled instead on satisfying memories of their most recent meetings . He was finding it almost impossible to fix a regular night of the week for their meetings, as they had to accommodate three separate Quidditch teams’ practices .
The coins will grow hot when the date changes, so if you’re carrying them in a pocket you’ll be able to feel them . “Well — I thought it was a good idea,” said Hermione, trying to look modest .
Harry and Ron examining his own fake Galleon with a slightly mournful air . The Ravenclaws and Hufflepuffs were taking a lively interest in the outcome . Harry realized how much Professor McGonagall cared about beating Slytherin .
Snape had booked the Quidditch pitch for Slytherin practice so often that the Gryffindors had difficulty getting on it to play . When Alicia Spinnet turned up in the hospital wing with eyebrows growing so thick and fast that they obscured her vision and obstructed her mouth, Snape insisted that she must have attempted a Hair-Thickening Charm on herself .
Ron and Hermione had never endured a relentless campaign of insults, jeers, and intimidation . When Slytherins, some of them seventh years and considerably larger than he was, muttered as they passed in the corridors, “Got your bed booked in the hospital wing, Weasley?” he did not laugh, but turned a delicate shade of green .
Ron looked as pale and sweaty as he had done then, not to mention as reluctant to open his mouth . The Great Hall was filling up fast when they arrived, the talk louder and the mood more exuberant than usual . Harry looked around and saw that nearly everyone there was wearing silver badges in the shape of what seemed to be crowns .
Hermione and Ginny sat down opposite them wearing red-and-gold scarves, gloves, and rosettes . “Well, that’s a good sign, I never feel you perform as well in exams if you’re not a bit nervous,” said Ron .
Ron seemed to come to himself slightly as they walked back across the Great Hall . Hermione hurried Ron across the entrance hall, down the stone steps, and out into the icy air . It became clear after ten minutes that Ron was not capable of eating anything more .
Harry pointed out encouraging factors to Ron as they walked . Angelina had changed already and was talking to the rest of the team when they entered . Harry and Ron pulled on their robes .
The Slytherin team were standing waiting for them . The new captain, Montague, was built along the same lines as Dudley . Madam Hooch smirked, tapping the crown-shaped badge on his chest .
George Weasley drops the Quaffle, caught by Katie Bell, Katie Bell of Gryffindor reverse passes to Alicia Spinnet and Spinnet’s away . Lee Jordan’s commentary rang through the stadium and Harry listened as hard as he could through the wind whistling in his ears and the din of the crowd . “— dodges Warrington, avoids a Bludger — close call, Alicia — and the crowd are loving this, just listen to them, what’s
Bletchley, the Slytherin Keeper, had saved the goal; he threw the Quaffle to Warrington who sped off with it, zigzagging in between Alicia and Katie; the singing from below grew louder and louder ashe drew nearer and nearer Ron . He turned his Firebolt toward Ron, a lone figure at the far end of the pitch, hovering before the three goal hoops while the massive Warrington pelted
WEASLEY WILL MAKE SURE WE WIN, WEASLESY IS OUR KING ... “Harry, WHAT ARE YOU DOING?” screamed Angelina, soaring past him to keep up with Katie. “GET GOING!” Harry realized that he had been stationary in midair for more than a minute, watching the progress of the match without sparing a thought for the whereabouts of the Snitch; horrified, he went into a dive and
There was a terrible groan from the Gryffindor end, coupled with fresh screams and applause from the Slytherins . There was an edge of panic in Harry’s desire to find the Snitch now . If he could just get it soon and finish the game quickly, come on now Angelina .
Harry ducked a Bludger that Crabbe had sent rocketing in his direction and resumed his frantic scouring of the pitch for the Snitch . Malfoy, like him, was continuing to soar around the stadium, searching fruitlessly .
Harry pulled his broom upward, holding the struggling ball in his hand and the Gryffindor spectators screamed their approval . Madam Hooch’s shrill whistle, an uproar in the stands compounded of catcalls, angry yells and jeering, a thud . “I’ve never seen a worse Keeper ... but then he was born in a bin.
Harry turned away to meet the rest of the team who were now landing one by one . Harry had dismounted from his broom over by the goalposts and was making his way slowly back to the changing rooms alone . Fred and George had realized what Malfoy was talking about. “Leave it, Fred, let him yell, he’s just sore he lost, the jumped-up little —” said Angelina .
Harry drew back the fist clutching the Snitch and sank it as hard as he could into Malfoy’s stomach . He could hear girls’ voices screaming, Malfy yelling, George swearing, a whistle blowing, and the bellowing of the crowd around him, but he did not care .
Harry and George marched off the pitch, both panting, neither saying a word to each other . They had barely reached the door of Professor McGonagall’s office when she came marching along the corridor behind them . She strode around behind her desk and faced them, quivering with rage as she threw the Gryffindor scarf aside onto the floor .
Dolores Umbridge was standing in the doorway wrapped in a green tweed cloak . “May I help, Professor McGonagall?” asked Professor Umbridge in her most poisonously sweet voice . „Why, I thought you might be grateful for a little extra authority.” Harry would not have been surprised to see sparks fly from Professor Hull’s nostrils .
Minerva had pulled out a piece of parchment that she now unfurled, clearing her throat fussily before starting to read what it said . "Well, yes," said Professor McGonagall violently . “As a matter of fact, minerva, it was you who made me see that we needed a further amendment. How you took the case to Dumbledore, who insisted that the Gryffindor Quidditch team be allowed to play? Well, now, I couldn
“Yes, Mr. Potter, I think a lifelong ban ought to do the trick,” said Umbridge . “I think, to be safe, this young man’s twin ought to be stopped too,” she continued . It did not feel as though they had won the match at all .
Harry stared miserably at the dark window . The Snitch he had caught earlier was zooming around and around the common room . "Maybe this will all turn out to have been a bad dream. Maybe I’ll wake up tomorrow and find we haven’t played yet.
“I’m going to resign first thing tomorrow,” said Harry . “I've been given a lifetime ban. So’ve Fred and George.” “What?” Ron yelped. Hermione told him the full story; Harry could not bear to tell it again . When she had finished, Ron looked more anguished than ever .
Harry sprinted up to the boys’ dormitory to fetch the Invisibility Cloak and the Marauder’s Map from his trunk . He was so quick that he and Ron were ready to leave at least five minutes before Hermione hurried back down from the girls’ dormitories . “Well, it’s cold out there!” she said defensively, as Ron clicked his tongue impatiently. They crept through the portrait hole and covered themselves hastily in the cloak .
Hagrid's hair was matted with congealed blood, and his left eye had been reduced to a puffy slit amid a mass of purple-and-black bruises . There were many cuts on his face and hands, some of them still bleeding, and he was moving gingerly . “I’m tellin’ yeh, I’m fine,” said Hagrid firmly .
“You ought to go and see Madam Pomfrey, Hagrid,” said Hermione . “Some of those cuts look nasty.” “I’m dealin’ with it, all righ’?” said Hagrid repressively.
“Giants?” said Hagrid, catching the steak before it reached his belt . “Who’s told yeh what I’ve bin talkin’ to? “We guessed,” said Hermione apologetically . Hagrid glared at them, then snorted .
Hagrid choked in his mug and dropped his steak at the same time . a large quantity of spit, tea, and dragon blood was sprayed over the table . “I don’t know anything that’s been happenin’ since I left. I was on a secret mission, wasn’ I, didn’ wan’ owls followin’ me all over the place — ruddy dementors!” He asked him wide-eyed .
“Yeah, tha’s right,” said Hagrid, and a softened expression appeared on the few inches of face that were not obscured by beard or green steak . “You know, she’s a fine, well-dressed woman, an’ knowin’ where we was goin’ I wondered ’ow she’d feel abou’ clamberin’ over boulders an’ sleepin’ .
“You had to act like Muggles all the way?” asked Ron, looking thunderstruck . “We jus’ had ter be careful, ’cause Olympe an’ me, we stick out a bit,” said Hagrid cagily .
“An’ then we reached the place, an’ we started trekkin’ up through the mountains, lookin’ fer signs of ’em ... “We had ter lay off the magic once we got near 'em,” said Harry . “I reckon abou’ seventy or eighty,” said Hermione.
Wizards killed a few, o’ course, but mostly they killed each other, an’ now they’re dyin’ out faster than ever . Dumbledore says it’s our fault, it was the wizards who forced 'em to go an’ made ’em live a good long way from us an’ they had no choice but ter stick together fer their own protection,” said Hagrid .
“We took him magic. Giants like magic, jus’ don’t like us usin’ it against ’em. Anyway, that firs’ day we gave him a branch o’ Gubraithian fire.” Harry and Ron both frowned in puzzlement .
“Everlasting fire,” said Hermione irritably, “you ought to know that by now, Professor Flitwick’s mentioned it at least twice in class!” “Well anyway,” said Hagrid quickly, intervening before Ron could answer back, “Dumbledore’d bewitched this branch to burn evermore, which isn’ somethin’ any wizard could do, an’ so I lies it down in the snow by Karkus’ feet and says, ‘A gift to the Gurg
“Let ’em see we kept our promises. We’ll come back tomorrow with another present, an’ then we do come back with a present — gives a good impression, see? An’ gives them time ter test out the firs’ present an’ find out it’s an’ get 'em eager fer more . In any case, giants like Karkus — overload . em with information an’ they’ll kill yeh jus’
“Well, like I say, they’re not meant ter live together, giants,” said Hagrid sadly . “We hadn’ gone all that way ter give up after two days!” asked Ron incredulously .
Hermione clapped her hands to her mouth. “How did you get out of that?” asked Harry. “Wouldn’ta done if Olympe hadn’ bin there,” said Harry . “We’d used magic against ’em, an’ that’s what giants hate abou’ wizards.”
“How d’you know they were Death Eaters?” said Ron . “Macnair, remember him? Bloke they sent ter kill Buckbeak? Maniac, he is. Likes killin’ as much as Golgomath, no wonder they were gettin’ on so well.”
“You went poking around dark caves looking for giants?” said Ron with awed respect in his voice . “Well, it wasn’ the giants who worried us most,” said Hagrid .
Golgomath’s lot had beaten ’em unconscious; they’d woken up an’ crawled inter the nearest shelter they could find . So we kep’ goin’ back, visitin’ the wounded. “So ... so there aren’t any giants coming?” said Ron .
“Nope,” said Hagrid, heaving a deep sigh as he turned over his steak again and applied the cooler side to his face . “We did wha’ we meant ter do, we gave ’em Dumbledore’s message an’ some o’ them heard it an’ I ’spect some . They’ll remember it. Jus’ maybe, them that don’t want ter stay around Golgomath’ll move outta the
Hermione gasped; her mug slipped through her fingers and smashed on the floor; Fang yelped . Harry seized Harry’s and Ron’s mugs and shoved them under the cushion in Fang’s basket . Fang was leaping up at the door; Hagrid pushed him out of the way with his foot and pulled it open .
“I thought you were one o’ them Ministry — don’t you work with Fudge?” Hagrid said . “Tha’s brave of yeh,” said Umbridge, giving no sign that she had heard him .
Umbridge wheeled around and strode the length of the cabin, looking around carefully . She bent and peered under the bed; Harry actually pulled in his stomach as she walked by . Hagrid hastily removed the dragon steak from his face .
“Where’ve you been?” asked Umbridge, cutting coolly through Hagrid’s babbling . There was a pause in which Hagrid stared at her with his newly uncovered eye . “Yeah,” said Umbridge .
Umbridge looked at him coldly; his smile faltered . “You ought to know too that as High Inquisitor it is my unfortunate but necessary duty to inspect my fellow teachers. So I daresay we shall meet again soon enough.” Hagrid echoed blankly .
“I’ve bin keepin’ a couple o’ creatures saved fer yer O.W.L. year, you wait, they’re somethin’ really special” asked Hermione tentatively . “I don’ want ter spoil the surprise,” said Hagrid .
The Eye of the Snake Hermione plowed her way back to Hagrid’s cabin through two feet of snow on Sunday morning . Harry and Ron wanted to go with her, but their mountain of homework had reached an alarming height again . They remained in the common room, trying to ignore the gleeful shouts drifting up from the grounds outside .
Hermione returned from Hagrid’s just before lunch, shivering slightly, her robes damp to the knees . “Got all his lessons planned for him?” she said dully, sinking into a chair beside Harry. “He wasn’t even there when I arrived, I was knocking for at least half an hour. And then he came stumping out of the forest —” Harry groaned .
Harry knew that many of them preferred Professor Grubbly-Plank’s lessons . It was with a certain amount of apprehension that Harry, Ron, and Hermione headed down to Hagrid’s on Tuesday, heavily muffled against the cold . The High Inquisitor was nowhere to be seen as they struggled through the snow toward Hagrid .
Harry strode straight into the forest after Malfoy entered the forest . The Slytherins murmured agreement and a few Gryffindors looked as though they thought Malfay had a fair point too . “Only it wouldn’t be the first time you’d brought wild stuff to class, would it?” asked Hagrid .
Harry nudged Ron and pointed into the black space between two gnarled yew trees . It looked around at the class for a few seconds, swishing its long black tail, then bowed its head and began to tear flesh from the dead cow with its pointed fangs . There were only two other people who seemed to be able to see them .
“Oh, an’ here comes another one!” said Hagrid proudly as a second black horse appeared out of the dark trees, folded its leathery wings closer to its body, and dipped its head to gorge on the meat . “Now ... put yer hands up, who can see ’em?” Immensely pleased to feel that he was at last going to understand the mystery of these horses, Harry raised his hand .
“Tha’s exactly right,” said Hagrid solemnly, “ten points ter Gryffindor. Now, thestrals —” “Hem, hem.” “Oh hello!” Hagrid said, smiling, having located the source of the noise . “Telling you that I would be inspecting your lesson?”
Professor Umbridge raised her eyebrows at him and muttered as she made a note on her clipboard . “Oh yeah,” said Umbridge, throwing an uneasy glance at Umbridge’s clipboard, but plowing on valiantly . Harry’s heart sank like a stone, but Hagrid merely chuckled.
Thestrals aren’ dangerous! All righ, they might take a bite outta you if yeh really annoy them . “No — come on!” said Professor Umbridge, looking a little anxious now .
Professor Umbridge scribbled on her clipboard . The few unbruised bits of Hagrid’s face flushed, but he tried to act as though he had not heard Pansy’s answer . ‘Er ... yeah ... good stuff abou’ thestrals. Well, once they’re tamed, like this lot, yeh’ll never be lost again,’ said Malfoy .
“I think I’ve got enough to be getting along with. You will receive” — she mimed taking something from the air in front of her . “That foul, lying, twisting old gargoyle!” stormed Hermione half an hour later, as they made their way back up to the castle through the channels they had made earlier in the snow .
Malfoy, Crabbe, and Goyle roared with laughter as they pushed past on their way to the castle . “Ignore them, just ignore them,” intoned Hermione .
Ron and Hermione’s prefect duties became more and more onerous as Christmas approached . They were called upon to supervise the decoration of the castle .
Harry had not had the heart to tell her that Dobby was taking everything she made . For the first time in his school career, he very much wanted to spend the holidays away from Hogwarts . He felt highly resentful toward the place at the moment .
Harry arrived early in the Room of Requirement for the last D.A. meeting before the holidays . He could tell the elf had done it, because nobody else would have strung a hundred golden baubles from the ceiling . Harry had only just managed to get the last of them down before the door creaked open and Luna Lovegood entered looking dreamy .
The arrival of Ron, Hermione, and Neville brought this depressing discussion to an end . "We’re not doing anything new right before a three-week break," said Zacharias Smith .
Neville had unfrozen three times in a row, he had Neville join Ron and Hermione again . When he passed Cho she beamed at him; he resisted the temptation to walk past her several more times . After ten minutes on the Impediment Jinx, they laid out cushions all over the floor .
“I’m — sorry,” she said thickly . Harry’s heart sank right back past its usual spot and settled somewhere around his navel . “He was really good at it, or he could never have got to the middle of that maze.” “You survived when you were just a baby,” said Cho .
Harry felt a burning desire to run from the room and, at the same time, a complete inability to move his feet . “You’d have to ask Loony. Luna, I mean.” He could not think . A tingling sensation was spreading throughout him, paralyzing his arms, legs, and brain . He returned to the common room half an hour later to find Hermione and Ron .
Ron sniggered, breaking off when Hermione caught his eye . “So — er — what did she want?” he asked in a mock casual voice. “She —” Harry began, rather hoarsely; he cleared his throat and tried again. “HA!” Ron made a triumphant gesture with his fist and went into a raucous peal of laughter that made several timid-looking second years over beside the window jump . A reluctant grin
"You’d think a bit of kissing would cheer her up," said Ron . "You are the most insensitive wart I have ever had the misfortune to meet," Ron said .
“You were, weren’t you?” Hermione looked as though she was restraining herself from rolling her eyes with extreme difficulty . “Well, I suppose it could have been worse,” said Harry . He tried to imagine going somewhere with Cho — Hogsmeade, perhaps — and being alone with her .
Ron asked Hermione, trying to read the bit of parchment now trailing on the floor . He hitched it up out of sight, but looked disgruntled . They sat in silence for another twenty minutes .
Dean, Seamus, and Neville were already asleep . Harry put his glasses on his bedside table and got into bed but did not pull the hangings closed around his four-poster . He stared at the patch of starry sky visible through the window next to Neville's bed .
Harry was protesting that he could not give Cho his Firebolt because Umbridge had it . He was gliding between shining metal bars, across dark, cold stone . It was dark, yet he saw objects around him shimmering in strange, vibrant colors .
The man was yelling in pain ... then he fell silent. “Harry! HARRY!” He opened his eyes. Every inch of his body was covered in icy sweat; his bedcovers were twisted all around him like a straitjacket; he felt as though a white-hot poker was being applied to his forehead . “He’s really ill,” said a scared voice, and Harry heard footsteps running out of the dormitory .
Harry choked, wiping his mouth on his pajamas and shaking uncontrollably . “There’s nothing wrong with me, it’s your dad you’ve got to worry about — we need to find out where he is ... he’s bleeding like mad — it was a huge snake. ... Then there were hurried footsteps coming up the stairs, and he heard Neville’s voice again .
Professor McGonagall was gazing at him through her lopsided spectacles as though horrified at what she was seeing . “I tell you, I saw it happen!” she said, his voice rising to a shout .
Professor McGonagall followed the silent figures of Neville, Dean, and Seamus, out of the dormitory, down the spiral stairs into the common room . Mr. Weasley was bleeding as they walked along so sedately, and what if those fangs had been poisonous? They passed Mrs. Norris, who turned her lamplike eyes upon them and hissed faintly .
Dr. Dumbledore was sitting in a high-backed chair behind his desk . Professor McGonagall looked around at Harry, frowning slightly . The words seemed to reverberate in the air after he had said them .
Dumbledore asked quietly, still not looking at Harry . “Well ... I don’t know,” said Harry, still in the same calm tone . "I saw it all from the snake’s point of view. I was the snake,” he said .
Harry, Ron, and Professor McGonagall were two of Hogwarts’ most celebrated Heads . They have portraits hanging in other important Wizarding institutions . “But Mr. Weasley could be anywhere!” said Harry .
Dumbledore watched the smoke closely, his brow furrowed, and after a few seconds, the tiny puffs became a steady stream of smoke that thickened and coiled in the air . The smoke serpent split itself instantly into two snakes, both coiling and undulating in the dark air, and vanished .
“I yelled until someone came running,” said Professor McGonagall . “I took it Dilys will have seen him arrive, then —” Dumbledore said .
Harry knew Mr. Weasley was referring to the clock that told, not the time, but the whereabouts and conditions of the various family members . But it was very late. And he felt cold as his glasses askew, blood running down his face . Dumbledore was now rummaging in a cupboard behind Harry and Ron .
Phineas’s voice was familiar to Harry . But before he could think, the portraits broke into a storm of protest . “Shame on you, Phines!” roared a corpulent, red-nosed old wizard .
Fred, George, and Ginny were ushered inside by Professor McGonagall . "Your father has been injured in the course of his work for the Order of the Phoenix," said Dumbledore . “Floo powder is not safe at the moment, the Network is being watched. You will be taking a Portkey,” said Fred, looking shaken .
“You have all used a Portkey before?” asked Dumbledore . Harry looked up at him — they were very close together . At once, Harry’s scar burned white-hot, as though the old wound had burst open again . There rose within Harry a hatred so powerful he felt, for that instant .
Kreacher was disappearing through the door to Grimmauld Place . Sirius was hurrying toward them all, looking anxious . The twins and Ginny were staring at him .
“I expect Dumbledore’s letting Molly know now.” “We’ve got to go to St. Mungo’s!” said Sirius . “He’s our dad!” said Fred with a mulish expression, “Sirius, can you lend us cloaks or anything — ?” said George .
Fred and George still looked mutinous . Ginny took a few steps over to the nearest chair and sank into it . Harry looked at Ron, who made a funny movement somewhere between a nod and shrug . The twins glared at Sirius for another minute .
Don’t be stupid, you haven’t got fangs, he told himself . He put the bottle down on the table a little harder than he meant to . Then a burst of fire in midair illuminated the dirty plates in front of them and as they gave cries of shock, a scroll of parchment fell with a thud onto the table, accompanied by a single golden phoenix tail feather .
Fred fell into a doze, his head sagging sideways onto his shoulder . Ginny was curled like a cat on her chair, but her eyes were open . Sirius suggested that they all go to bed, but without any real conviction .
“Oh, forget it, then,” muttered Sirius, unable to stand it a moment longer . Sirius said that he was very pleased to have been able to help, and hoped they would all stay with him as long as Mr. Weasley was in hospital .
Harry told his godfather every detail of the vision he had had, including the fact that he himself had been the snake who had attacked Mr. Weasley . “I’m sure he would have told you if it was anything to worry about,” said Harry in a voice only a little above a whisper .
Harry sat fully clothed, hunched against the cold metal bars of the bedstead . Ron woke up, Harry pretended to have enjoyed a refreshing nap too . They arrived from Hogwarts while they were eating lunch .
Harry thought he sensed the concealed eye staring hard at him . He asked Mad-Eye where St. Mungo’s was hidden . Harry knew the eye was rolling in all directions under the tilted hat .
Moody gave Harry another shove between the shoulder blades to urge him forward . Harry looked up at the very ugly dummy and said, her breath steaming up the glass, “Wotcher ... We’re here to see Arthur Weasley.” Then Harry thought how absurd it was for Tonks to expect her to hear her talking quietly through a sheet of glass .
Witches and wizards in lime-green robes were walking up and down rows . Harry noticed the emblem embroidered on their chests: a wand and bone, crossed . The wall behind her was covered in notices and posters saying things like A CLEAN CAULDRON KEEPS POTIONS FROM BECOMING POISONS ARE ANTI-DON’TS UNLESS APPROVED BY A QUALIFIED HEALER .
Dilys was eyeing the Weasley party as though counting them; when Harry caught her eye she gave a tiny wink, walked sideways out of her portrait, and vanished . The wizard hopped from one foot to the other as though dancing on hot coals . “You want Spell Damage, fourth floor. Just like it says on the floor guide. Next!” Harry read the Floor Guide: ARTIFACT ACCIDENTS.
VISITORS’ TEAROOM AND HOSPITAL SHOP . A very old, stooped wizard with a hearing trumpet had shuffled to the front of the queue now . “Ward forty-nine, but I’m afraid you’re wasting your time,” said the witch dismissively .
More witches and wizards in lime-green robes walked in and out of the doors they passed . They climbed a flight of stairs and entered the “Creature-Induced Injuries” corridor, where the second door bore the words “DANGEROUS” DAI LLEWELLYN WARD: SERIOUS BITES . Mad-Eye set himself with his back against the corridor wall, his magical eye spinning in all directions .
Mr. Weasley was occupying the bed at the far end of the ward beside the tiny window . Harry was pleased and relieved to see that he was propped up on several pillows and reading the Daily Prophet by the solitary ray of sunlight falling onto his bed . He looked around as they walked toward him and, seeing whom it was, beamed . “Why can’t they take them off, Dad?” asked Fred .
Mr. Weasley said he knew a werewolf personally, very nice man, who finds the condition quite easy to manage . “So, you going to tell us what happened, Dad?” asked Fred, pulling his chair closer to the bed .
Mr. Weasley shook it open again and said, “I was just reading about Willy Widdershins’ arrest when you arrived. You know Willy turned out to be behind those regurgitating toilets last summer? One of his jinxes backfired, the toilet exploded, and they found him lying unconscious in the wreckage covered from head to foot in . “You were guarding it, weren’t you?” said George quietly .
Mad-Eye and Tonks went in and closed the door of the ward behind them . Fred raised his eyebrows. “Be like that. Don’t tell us anything.” Fred and George disentangled the string and separated five Extendable Ears from each other . “Go on, Harry, take it! You saved Dad’s life, if anyone’s got the right to eavesdrop on him it’s you.” Fred whispered .
“You know, Dumbledore seems almost to have been waiting for Harry to see something like this.” “Yeah, well,” said Moody . “The boy’s seeing things from inside You-Know-Who’s snake” Harry pulled the Extendable Ear out of his own, his heart hammering very fast and heat rushing up his face .
Harry thought he had been the snake, he knew it now . I’m the weapon, Harry thought, and it was as though poison were pumping through his veins, chilling him, bringing him out in a sweat as he swayed with the train through the dark tunnel . Harry shook his head violently and stared up at an advertisement for home insurance .
"Harry, dear, are you sure you’re all right?" said Mrs. Weasley in a worried voice . "You look ever so pale. You go upstairs to bed right now, and you can have a couple of hours’ sleep before dinner, all right?” he nodded; here was a ready-made excuse not to talk to any of the others, which was precisely what he wanted, so when she opened the front door he proceeded straight past the troll’s leg umbrella stand
Phineas Nigellus would have to leave Grimmauld Place straightaway . He would spend Christmas at Hogwarts without the others, which would keep them safe over the holidays at least . The Dursleys found him on their doorstep six months earlier than they had expected .
“I have just given it to you, dolt,” said Harry, his hand still upon the doorknob . “Why?” said Harry eagerly, dropping the end of his trunk .
“You know,” said Phineas Nigellus, even more loudly than Harry, “this is precisely why I loathed being a teacher! I have never paused, while feeling hard-done-by, to note that following Dumbledore’s orders has never yet led you into harm? No, like all young people, you are quite sure that you alone feel and think, you alone recognize danger ... You alone are the only one clever enough to realize what the Dark Lord may be planning.
Harry was walking down a deserted corridor toward a plain black door, past rough stone walls, torches, and an open doorway onto a flight of stone steps leading downstairs on the left . “Mum says dinner’s ready, but she’ll save you something if you want to stay in bed.” Harry opened his eyes, but Ron had already left the room . It occurred to Harry that Dumbledore had probably set Phineas Nigellus to watch over him .
Harry could not remember Sirius ever being in such a good mood . He could hear his voice echoing up through the floor in the cold and empty drawing room . It was around six o’clock in the evening that the doorbell rang and Mrs. Black started screaming again .
"I came on the Knight Bus," said Hermione airily, pulling off her jacket before Harry had time to speak . "Oh, don’t lie, Harry," said Harry glaring at Ron and Ginny . “I’ve told him it’s really good because he kept laughing so much," she said .
“Oh, stop feeling all misunderstood,” said Hermione sharply . “All been talking about me, have you? Well, I’m getting used to it....” Harry remained quite still as the impact of these words hit him .
Harry had flashes of what Voldemort was up to last year . "I was inside that snake. It was like I was the snake," Hermione said . “You didn’t leave your bed, mate,” said Ron . Harry started pacing up and down the room again, thinking .
Sirius’s delight at having the house full again, and especially at having Harry back, was infectious . Harry worked tirelessly in the run-up to Christmas Day, cleaning and decorating with their help . By the time they all went to bed on Christmas Eve the house was barely recognizable .
Sirius and Lupin had given Harry a set of excellent books entitled Practical Defensive Magic and Its Use Against the Dark Arts . It had superb, moving color illustrations of all the counterjinxes and hexes it described . Harry flicked through the first volume eagerly; he could see it was going to be highly useful in his plans for the D.A. Hagrid sent a furry brown wallet that had fangs .
Harry threw his new homework diary at him; it hit the wall opposite and fell to the floor where it said happily, “If you’ve dotted the i’s then you may do whatever you please!” They got up and dressed; they could hear various inhabitants calling “Merry Christmas” to each other . “I’ve been wanting that New Theory of Numerology for ages! And that perfume is really unusual, Ron.” “No problem,” said Ron .
“Er ... I think we’d better knock ...” Ron rapped the door with his knuckles but there was no reply . “He must be sneaking around upstairs,” he said, and without further ado pulled open the door . A jumble of assorted rags and smelly old blankets were piled on the floor .
“I haven’t seen him since the night we came back here,” said Harry . “You were ordering him out of the kitchen.” “Yeah ... He must be hiding upstairs somewhere.” “No, no, house-elves can’t leave unless they’re given clothes,” said Sirius .
Harry and Hermione were planning to pay Mr. Weasley another visit . The car had had a similar Enlarging Spell upon it as the Wesleys’ old Ford Anglia . Harry and the others got out of the car and Mundungus drove off around the corner .
Mr. Weasley had just opened Harry’s gift of fuse-wire and screwdrivers . He looked rather frightened and pulling the bed covers higher up his chest . “Well — now don’t get upset, Molly, but Augustus Pye had an idea ... um ... complementary medicine.
Lupin strolled away from the bed and over to the werewolf, who had no visitors . Bill muttered something about getting himself a cup of tea and Fred and George leapt up to accompany him . “Not messing about, Molly, dear,” said Mr. Weasley imploringly .
Ron was seriously affronted when a medieval wizard called out that he clearly had a bad case of spattergroit . “Tis a most grievous affliction of the skin, young master, that will leave you pockmarked and more gruesome even than you are now —” said Ron, his ears turning red .
“Er — how are you, Professor?” said Ron, sounding slightly guilty . It had been Ron’s malfunctioning wand that damaged Professor Lockhart’s memory so badly that he had landed here in the first place . “I’m very well indeed, thank you!” said Lockhart exuberantly .
Gilderoy said he never gets visitors, poor lamb, and I can’t think why, he’s such a sweetie, aren’t you? “They want loads of them, won’t take no for an answer!” “Listen to him,” said the Healer . “He was rather well known a few years ago; we very much hope that this liking for giving autographs is a sign that his memory might be coming back a little bit,” she said .
The Healer pointed her wand at the door of the Janus Thickey ward and muttered “Alohomora” The door swung open and she led the way inside, keeping a firm grasp on Gilderoy’s arm until she had settled him into an armchair beside his bed . Harry looked around; this ward bore unmistakable signs of being a permanent home to its residents .
A sallow-skinned, mournful-looking wizard lay in the bed opposite, staring at the ceiling; he seemed quite unaware of anything around him . At the far end of the ward flowery curtains had been drawn around two beds to give the occupants and their visitors some privacy .
Neville looked as though he would rather be anywhere in the world but here . A dull purple flush was creeping up his plump face and was not making eye contact with any of them . Neville did not look at him, but stared at his own feet . Mrs. Longbottom proffering her hand regally to Ron and Ginny in turn .
Neville looked up at the ceiling, and shook his head . Harry, Ron, Hermione, and Ginny were tortured into insanity by You-Know-Who’s followers .
Neville’s mother had come edging down the ward in her nightdress . She no longer had the plump, happy-looking face Harry had seen in Moody’s old photograph of the original Order of the Phoenix . “Very well, Alice dear, very well — Neville, take it, whatever it is.” But Neville had already stretched out his hand, into which his mother dropped an empty Droobles Blowing Gum wrapper .
Bellatrix Lestrange was sent to Azkaban using the Cruciatus Curse on Neville’s parents until they lost their minds . “Look, I didn’t learn joined-up writing for nothing, you know!” Sirius said . Sirius seemed satisfied with this story, but it made Harry uneasy .
Harry did not want to leave Sirius all alone again with only Kreacher for company . Then there was no Quidditch to look forward to now that he had been banned . There was every likelihood that their burden of homework would increase as the exams drew even nearer .
“You haven’t done anything, have you?” said Ron, looking unnerved . Sirius and Snape both seated at the long kitchen table, glaring in opposite directions . “You know,” said Sirius loudly, leaning back on his rear chair legs .
“Why do I have to study Occlu — thing?” Snape blurted out . Harry had the horrible sensation that his insides were melting . “I suppose because it is a headmaster’s privilege to delegate less enjoyable tasks,” said Harry .
“I am in rather a hurry, Black... unlike you, I do not have unlimited leisure time.” “I’ll get to the point, then,” said Sirius, standing up straighter in his chair . “If I hear you’re using these Occlumency lessons to give Harry a hard time, you’ll have me to answer to.” “Yes, I have,” said Snape proudly .
Sirius and Snape lowered their wands and swept back across the kitchen . Harry yelled, vaulting over the table and trying to get in between them, “Sirius, don’t —” “Why, yes, I suppose I am,” said Snape. “Harry — get — out — of — it!” snarled Sirius, pushing him out of the way with his free hand . “Completely cured!” he announced brightly
Harry was separated from him by Mundungus and Mad-Eye, who had dropped in to offer Mr. Weasley their congratulations . He wanted to talk to Sirius, to tell him that he should not listen to a word Snape said, that Snape was goading him deliberately and that the rest of them did not think Sirius was a coward for doing as Dumbledore told him and remaining in Grimmauld Place, but he had no opportunity to do so .
Harry, Ron, and Hermione were to return to Hogwarts on the Knight Bus the following day . They were escorted once again by Tonks and Lupin, both of whom were eating breakfast in the kitchen . Harry had an unpleasant constricted sensation in his chest .
Harry lured Sirius from his place of safety, no matter how foully Snape treated him . “Let’s go, then,” said Sirius, clapping Harry on the shoulder and smiling grimly . It was his last chance to tell Sirius to be careful; he turned, looked into his godfather’s face and opened his mouth to speak .
Ginny and Hermione were crammed with mismatched chairs grouped haphazardly around windows . Some of these appeared to have fallen over when the bus stopped abruptly in Grimmauld Place . "Looks like we’ll have to split up," said Tonics briskly .
Harry and Ron handed Stan 11 Sickles each, the bus set off again, swaying ominously . They were all flung backward; Ron’s chair toppled right over and Pigwidgeon burst out of his cage . Harry, who had narrowly avoided falling by seizing a candle bracket, looked out of the window: they were now speeding down what appeared to be a motorway .
A few minutes later the Knight Bus screeched to a halt outside a small pub . They could hear Stan ushering the unfortunate Madam Marsh out of the bus . Lupin and Tonks helped them off the bus with their luggage and then got off to say good-bye .
“Look after yourselves,” said Lupin, shaking hands all round and reaching Harry last . He lowered his voice while the rest exchanged last-minute good-byes with Tonks, “Harry, I know you don’t like Snape, but we all want you to learn to protect yourself, so work hard, all right?” Harry heavily, looking up into Lupin’s prematurely lined face .
“Hi, Harry,” said a voice behind him . “I’m really stup —” “Hi,” said Harry as his stomach leapt uncomfortably. “Hi.” “We’ll be in the library,” said Hermione firmly .
Harry paused outside the door when he reached it, wishing he were almost anywhere else, then knocked, and entered . It was a shadowy room lined with shelves bearing hundreds of glass jars in which floated slimy bits of animals and plants, suspended in variously colored potions . Snape had once accused Harry of robbing .
“I am still your teacher and you will therefore call me ‘sir’ or ‘Professor’ at all times.” “Now, Occlumency. As I told you back in your dear godfather’s kitchen, this branch of magic seals the mind against magical intrusion and influence.” “And why does Professor Dumbledore think I need it, sir?” said Harry, looking directly into Snape’s dark, cold eyes . “You have no subtlety, Potter,” said Snape, his
The Dark Lord is at a considerable distance and the grounds of Hogwarts are guarded by many ancient spells and charms . “Time and space matter in magic, Potter. Eye contact is often essential to Legilimency,” Snape said . The curse that failed to kill you seems to have forged some kind of connection between you and the Dark Lord .
“Do not interrupt me, Potter,” said Snape in a dangerous voice . “I saw inside the snake’s head, not his!” “I thought I just told you not to interrupt me,” said Harry . There was a nasty silence. They glared at each other across the Pensieve .
“It is enough that we know,” said Snape repressively . “And he might try and make me do things?” asked Harry. “Sir?” he added hurriedly. “Which brings us back to Occlumency.” Snape raised the wand to his temple and deposited the silvery substance into the stone basin .
“I am about to attempt to break into your mind,” said Snape . “We are going to see how well you resist. You have already shown aptitude at resisting the Imperius Curse!” Snape struck before Harry was ready, before Harry had even begun to summon any force of resistance: the office swam in front of his eyes and vanished .
Harry threw him a filthy look before doing as he was told . “You’re not doing it, Potter. ... You will need more discipline than this.” He could as easily detach his legs .
"Get up! You are not trying, you are making no effort," said Snape sharply . “I — am — making — an — effort,” he said through clenched teeth . "Then you will find yourself easy prey for the Dark Lord!” replied Snape .
Snape had been dreaming about a windowless corridor ending in a locked door for months . It was the corridor leading to the Department of Mysteries, and Mr. Weasley had been there the night that he had been attacked by Voldemort’s snake . Snape asked quietly and Harry saw, with deep satisfaction, that Snape was unnerved .
Harry was desperate to get out of Snape’s office and find Ron and Hermione . He picked up his schoolbag, swung it over his shoulder, and hurried toward the office door . Harry left without another word, closing the door carefully behind him, his scar still throbbing painfully .
Harry sat opposite Ron and Hermione in the window opposite . He was very white, and his scar seemed to be showing up more clearly than usual . “Yeah ... fine ... I dunno,” said Harry impatiently . „In the Department of Mysteries, it’s got to be,” said Ron .
“I know they call the people who work in there ‘Unspeakables’” said Ron . “It’s not weird at all, it makes perfect sense,” said Hermione sympathetically . Fred and George were demonstrating their latest bit of joke shop merchandise .
Harry and Ron exchanged looks as he reached into his bag, withdrew the planner and opened it tentatively . "I think I’ll go to bed," said Hermione, pushing the books he had just taken out of his bag back inside it . “I’m going to have to do this tomorrow,” Harry said encouragingly. “Well, write it in your homework planner then!” said Harry .
Harry lay panting on the floor, staring up at the ceiling, the scar on his forehead throbbing horribly . The words came, just as they had back in the Gryffindor changing room, as though a stranger was speaking them through Harry’s mouth . He took deep breaths, willing himself not to vomit all over Ron as he helped him toward bed .
The Beetle at Bay Harry’s question was answered the very next morning . Hermione nudged Harry and pointed at ten black-and-white photographs . Some were silently jeering; others were tapping their fingers on frame . Each picture was captioned with a name and crime for which the person had been sent to Azkaban .
“Black?” said Harry loudly. “Not so loud — just read it!” whispered Hermione . “We find ourselves, most unfortunately, in the same position we were two and a half years ago when the murderer Sirius Black escaped,” said Fudge last night .
Hermione ripped open the newspaper and began to read the report inside while Harry looked around the Great Hall . There they all were talking about homework and Quidditch and who knew what other rubbish . Outside these walls ten more Death Eaters had swollen Voldemort’s ranks .
Healer Miriam Strout, who was in charge of Mr. Bode’s ward at the time of the incident, has been suspended on full pay and was unavailable for comment . a spokeswizard for the hospital said in a statement, “St. Mungo’s deeply regrets the death” . “We have strict guidelines on the decorations permitted on our wards but it appears that Mr. Bold, busy over the Christmas period, overlooked the dangers of the plant on Mr
Harry was not thinking about Devil’s Snare . He was remembering taking the lift down to the ninth level of the Ministry on the day of his hearing . “I saw him at the Ministry with your dad ...” Ron’s mouth fell open .
“Are you okay, Hagrid?” asked Harry, following him as he lumbered after the Ravenclaws . “Jus’ busy, yeh know, usual stuff — lessons ter prepare — couple o’ salamanders got scale rot — an’ I’m on probation,” said Ron very loudly .
Harry, Ron, and Hermione were the only people who knew or cared . There was only one topic of conversation in the corridors now: the ten escaped Death Eaters . The story had finally filtered through the school from those few people who read the newspapers .
It was true that Harry was the subject of much renewed muttering and pointing in the corridors these days, yet he thought he detected a slight difference in the tone of the whisperers’ voices . They sounded curious rather than hostile now, and once or twice he was sure he overheard snatches of conversation that suggested that the speakers were not satisfied with the Prophet’s version of how and why ten Death Eaters had managed to break out of Azkaban fortress .
Harry thought that the breakout from Azkaban might have humbled Umbridge a little, that she might have been abashed at the catastrophe that had occurred right under her beloved Fudge’s nose . It seemed to have only intensified her furious desire to bring every aspect of life at Hogwarts under her personal control . Every single Divination and Care of Magical Creatures lesson was now conducted in the presence of Professor Trelawney and her clipboard .
Harry was distracted and jumpy in lessons, losing the thread of what he was saying while talking to the class, answering questions wrongly and glancing anxiously at Umbridge all the time . It seemed to Harry that Umbridge was steadily depriving him of everything that made his life at Hogwarts worth living .
Harry was improving so fast it was quite unnerving . When Harry taught them the Shield Charm, a means of deflecting minor jinxes so that they rebounded upon the attacker, only Hermione mastered the charm faster than Neville .
He had the horrible impression that he was slowly turning into a kind of aerial that was tuned in to tiny fluctuations in Voldemort’s mood . He was now dreaming about walking down the corridor toward the entrance to the Department of Mysteries almost every night, dreams that always culminated in him standing longingly in front of the plain black door . “Maybe it’s a bit like an illness,” said Harry flatly, looking concerned when Harry confided in her and Ron .
“Maybe it’s not Harry’s fault he can’t close his mind,” said Ron darkly . “Well, maybe Snape isn’t really trying to help Harry.” “Shut up, Ron,” said Hermione .
“Well, bring her along if you must,” said Hermione urgently . “I haven’t got time to tell you now, I’ve got to answer this quickly —” Harry asked Ron .
Ron seemed to notice Harry’s tone, because he did not mention Quidditch again during breakfast . Harry, after attempting to flatten his hair while staring at his reflection in the back of a teaspoon, proceeded alone to the entrance hall to meet Cho, feeling very apprehensive and wondering what on earth they were going to talk about . They joined the queue of people being signed out by Filch, occasionally catching each other’s eye and grinning shiftily, but not talking to each other
Harry and Cho sped up, talking and shrieking in a pointed fashion with many exaggerated glances back at them . The High Street was full of students ambling up and down, peering into the shop windows and messing about together on the pavement . “Oh ... I don’t mind,” said Cho .
The ten escaped Death Eaters were staring out of every shop window he and Cho passed . It started to rain as they passed Scrivenshaft’s; cold, heavy drops of water kept hitting Harry’s face and the back of his neck . “Um ... d’you want to get a coffee?” said Cho tentatively, as the rain began to fall more heavily .
Harry was reminded unpleasantly of Umbridge’s office . “Look, she’s decorated it for Valentine’s Day!” said Cho . Roger Davies, the Ravenclaw Quidditch Captain, was sitting about a foot and a half away .
Cho seized on the subject with relief and they passed a few happy moments abusing her . Harry was very conscious of the slurping noises coming from the table next door and cast wildly around for something else to say . A few more minutes passed in total silence, Harry drinking his coffee so fast that he would soon need a fresh cup .
Harry had grabbed the sugar bowl to excuse his sudden lunging movement across the table . He could not believe she wanted to talk about Cedric now, while kissing couples surrounded them and a cherub floated over their heads . Cho’s voice was rather higher when she spoke again .
Roger Davies’ girlfriend had even unglued herself to look around at Cho crying . “Oh, you’ll talk to Hermione Granger!” she said shrilly, her face now shining with tears .
He threw a Galleon down onto the table, shook pink confetti out of his eyes, and followed Cho out of the door . He simply did not understand what had happened; half an hour ago they had been getting along fine . Hagrid turned right and broke into a splashy run, and within minutes he was turning into the doorway of the Three Broomsticks.
Hagrid took a great swig from his tankard . Hagrid seemed to be in a very strange mood . He wiped a trickle of it out of his eye .
Rita Skeeter, ex-journalist on the Daily Prophet and one of Hermione’s least favorite people in the world . “You’re early!” said Rita at once, twisting around in her seat to stare avidly at Harry . She snatched up her crocodile-skin handbag and groped within it .
Unemployment did not suit Rita . The scarlet paint on her two-inch talons was chipped and there were a couple of false jewels missing from her winged glasses . "One more word about Harry’s love life and the deal’s off and that’s a promise," said Hermione irritably.
The Quick-Quotes Quill was actually in her hand and halfway to her mouth when the rapturous expression died out of her face . “I wasn’t the sole witness,” snarled Harry. “You want me to report what he says about He-Who-Must-Not-Be-Named?” Rita asked Hermione in a hushed voice .
“Yes, I do,” said Hermione irritably . “The Daily Prophet exists to tell people what they want to hear, does it?” she said . Rita blotted the front of her grubby raincoat .
Rita looked disparagingly at Luna, dipping her onion back into her gillywater . “He publishes important stories that he thinks the public needs to know. He doesn’t care about making money,” Rita said .
Rita Skeeter looked as though the taste of Stinksap was strong in her mouth again as she rounded on Hermione . “Daddy will be pleased,” said Luna brightly .
Seen and Unforeseen Luna said vaguely that Rita’s interview with Harry would appear in The Quibbler . Harry had not found it easy to talk about the night when Voldemort had returned . He wondered how people would react to the story . But the breakout of Bellatrix Lestrange and her fellow Death Eaters had given Harry a burning desire to do something, whether it worked or not .
Neville left his sentence hanging and returned to his baked potato . Dean, Seamus, and Neville departed for the common room . Harry and Hermione had not yet had dinner because of Quidditch practice .
“You should have told her differently” said Hermione, still with that maddeningly patient air . “But I don’t think you’re ugly,” said Harry, bemused .
“I’m just trying to make you see how she was feeling at the time,” said Harry fervently . “You should write a book,” Ron told Hermione as he cut up his potatoes .
Hermione yawned widely and looked out disconsolately at the cloudy night sky . She looked up to find her copy of Spellman’s Syllabary and caught Fred, George, and Harry looking at her with expressions of disgust and incredulity on their faces .
Ginny managed to snatch the Snitch from right under Hufflepuff Seeker Summerby’s nose, so that the final score was two hundred and forty . “I’ve got a lifelong ban,” Harry said in the common room . The best thing you could say about Gryffindor was that it was short .
Ginny corrected him as though reading Harry’s mind . Harry liked Angelina for the faith she was showing in Ron, but at the same time thought it would really be kinder to let him leave the team .
Harry had been sitting a few rows below Harry and Hermione . Once or twice she had turned squatly in her seat to look at him, her wide toad’s mouth stretched in what he thought had been a gloating smile . The memory of it made him feel hot with anger as he lay there in the dark . It took him much longer to get to sleep, but it took his brain a long time to close down .
Ron gave a loud, rasping, genuine snore and Harry awoke abruptly with his right hand stretched in front of him in the darkness to open a door that was hundreds of miles away . He knew he should not have seen the door, but at the same time, felt so consumed with curiosity about what was behind it . She gave the delivery owl a Knut and unfolded the newspaper eagerly while Harry helped himself to orange juice .
“I think I know what this means — open this one first!” Harry ripped off the brown packaging . Out rolled a tightly furled copy of March’s edition of The Quibbler . He unrolled it to see his own face grinning sheepishly at him from the front cover .
“This one’s in two minds,” said Fred, who had joined in the letter-opening with enthusiasm . “Says you don’t come across as a mad person, but he really doesn’t want to believe You-Know-Who’s back so he does not know what to think now, Harry!” said Hermione excitedly .
Hermione threw the copy of The Quibbler at her . She looked up at him, incandescent with rage, the magazine shaking in her stubby fingers . The message, apparently, has still not sunk in .
Harry had not seen so much as a corner of The Quibbler anywhere in the school . Hermione reported that every occupant of the cubicles in the girls’ toilets had been talking about it when she nipped in there before Ancient Runes . Professor Umbridge was stalking the school, stopping students at random and demanding that they turn out their books and pockets .
Theodore Nott whispered weedy-looking boy Hermione gleefully as they left the library . Harry knew perfectly well why they were acting like this: He named all of their fathers as Death Eaters . To cap it all, Luna told him that no copy of The Quibbler had sold out faster .
Harry was standing in a dark, curtained room lit by a single branch of candles . His hands were clenched on the back of a chair in front of him . He rolled over onto his side, closed his eyes, and fell asleep almost at once . Harry had to admit that the poster was not as funny after an hour or two .
“You are sure of your facts, Rookwood?” asked Harry. “Yes, My Lord, yes ... I used to work in the department after — after all....” “Avery told me Bode would be able to remove it.” “Bode could never have taken it, Master.” “Undoubtedly that is why he fought so hard against Malfoy’s Imperius Curse.” “You have done well to tell me this,” said Harry .
A cracked, age-spotted mirror hung on the wall in the shadows . His reflection grew larger and clearer in the darkness . Ron’s voice spoke very near to Harry . “Will you stop acting like a maniac, and I can get you out of here!” Ron said .
“I was You-Know-Who,” said Harry . “He was with Rookwood, he’s one of the Death Eaters who escaped from Azkaban, remember? I’m supposed to have learned to shut this stuff out. That’s what they want,” Harry said .
Harry and Ron waited until break next morning to tell Hermione exactly what had happened . They wanted to be absolutely sure they could not be overheard . When Bode tried to steal this weapon, something funny happened to him . And they couldn’t risk him getting better, could they?
“Sturgis Podmore,” gasped Hermione, looking thunderstruck . “I think we should just try and forget what you saw,” said Harry . Sturgis had Moody’s Invisibility Cloak, right?
Harry was so angry with her that he did not talk to her for the rest of the day . The Slytherins were singing “Weasley Is Our King” so loudly and frequently that by sundown Filch had banned it from the corridors out of sheer irritation . Harry received two more D’s in Potions, was still on tenterhooks that Hagrid might get the sack, and could not stop himself from dwelling on the dream in which he had seen Voldemort .
Harry stared fixedly at a dead frog suspended in a purple liquid in its jar . “You do know why we are here, don’t you, Potter?” said Snape . „So I can learn Occlumency,” said Harry .
A hundred dementors were swooping toward Harry across the lake in the grounds . He screwed up his face in concentration. He could see the dark holes beneath their hoods . But somehow, Snape was growing clearer, and the dementores were growing fainter .
“Reparo!” hissed Snape, and the jar sealed itself once more . “I don’t remember telling you to use a Shield Charm ... but there is no doubt that it was effective....” Harry did not speak; he felt that to say anything might be dangerous. “Let’s try again, shall we?” said Snape .
Harry was flat on his back again with no memory of having gotten there . There was a lump on the back of his head from where he had hit the ground and he felt feverish . “You are not working hard enough!” said Harry, firing up again .
Students had come flooding out of the Great Hall to see what was going on . Others had crammed themselves onto the marble staircase . Professor Trelawney looked as though what she was watching made her feel faintly sick .
“You c-can’t!” howled Professor Trelawney, tears streaming down her face from behind her enormous lenses, “I’ve b-been here sixteen years! H-Hogwarts is m-my h-home!” “It was your home!” said Professor Umbridge, and Harry was revolted to see the enjoyment stretching her toadlike face . “Please remove yourself from this hall. You are embarrassing us.” But she stood and watched, with an expression of glo
Students beside them scuttled out of the way as Dumbledore appeared in the doorway . He strode forward through the circle of onlookers toward the place where Professor Trelawney sat, tearstained and trembling upon her trunk, Professor McGonagall alongside her . To Harry’s very great surprise, Dr. Umbridge continued to smile .
“I am happy to say that on this occasion I have succeeded. May I introduce you?” he turned to face the open front doors . There was a shocked murmur around the hall and those nearest the doors hastily moved even farther backward .
The Centaur and The Sneak “I’ll bet you wish you hadn’t given up Divination now, don’t you, Hermione?” asked Parvati, smirking . It was breakfast time a few days after the sacking of Professor Trelawney, and Parvati was curling her eyelashes around her wand .
Classroom eleven was situated in the ground-floor corridor leading off the entrance hall on the opposite side to the Great Hall . The students who had already arrived were sitting on the earthy floor with their backs resting against tree trunks or boulders, arms wrapped around their knees or folded tightly across their chests . "Harry Potter," he said, holding out a hand when Harry entered the room .
“Er — hi,” said Harry, shaking hands with the centaur, inclining his white-blond head . “It was foretold that we would meet again.” Harry noticed that there was the shadow of a hoof-shaped bruise on Firenze’s chest . When the door was closed and the last student had sat down upon a tree stump beside the wastepaper basket, Firenzing gestured around the room .
“Centaurs are not the servants or playthings of humans,” said Firenze quietly . “They see this as a betrayal of our kind,” said Harry . Harry remembered how, nearly four years ago, the centaur Bane had shouted at him .
“Professor Trelawney did Astrology with us!” said Parvati excitedly, raising her hand in front of her so that it stuck up in the air as she lay on her back . “Trivial hurts, tiny human accidents,” said Firenze .
It was the most unusual lesson Harry had ever attended . They did indeed burn sage and mallowsweet there on the classroom floor . Firenze told them to look for certain shapes and symbols in the pungent fumes .
“His attempt is not working. He would do better to abandon it,” Firenze repeated blankly . “I would warn Hagrid myself, but I am banished — it would be unwise for me to go too near the forest now — Hagrid has troubles enough, without a centaurs’ battle.” “But — what’s Hagrid attempting to do?” said Harry . The happiness Harry had felt after The Quibbler interview had long since evaporated .
Harry had no choice but to leave Hagrid mopping up the dung all over his floor . He felt thoroughly dispirited as he trudged back up to the castle . Hannah Abbott became the first to receive a Calming Draught from Madam Pomfrey .
“They’re so pretty!” said Cho brightly, watching her silvery swan-shaped Patronus soar around the Room of Requirement during their last lesson before Easter . “But that would be really scary!” said Lavender, who was shooting puffs of silver vapor out of the end of her wand .
“Harry Potter, sir ... Dobby has come to warn you ... but the house-elves have been warned not to tell ...” Harry asked, grabbing the elf’s tiny arm and holding him away from anything with which he might seek to hurt himself . “Who’s ‘she’ could induce such fear,’ Harry asked . The elf looked up at him, slightly cross-eyed, and mouthed wordlessly .
Harry squeaked Dobby, who was still attempting to do himself serious injury, and ran with the elf in his arms to join the back of the queue . “I forbid you to hurt yourself!” said Harry, and he streaked off . It was only ten to nine, if they just took refuge in the library or the Owlery .
„Trip Jinx, Potter!” sang Umbridge, and the stone gargoyle jumped aside, the wall behind split open . They reached the polished door with the griffin knocker, but Umbridge did not bother to knock, she strode straight inside, still holding tight to Harry.
Cornelius Fudge, Minister of Magic, was rocking backward and forward on his toes beside the fire, apparently immensely pleased with the situation . Kingsley Shacklebolt and a tough-looking wizard Harry did not recognize with very short, unsy hair were positioned on either side of the door like guards . The portraits of old headmasters and mistresses were not shamming sleep tonight .
Dumbledore was not looking directly at Harry; his eyes were fixed upon a point just over his shoulder . He shook his head a fraction of an inch to each side . “You don’t know why you are here?” said Harry firmly .
“Nothing at all, Cornelius,” said Dumbledore gravely, inclining his head . There was a wait of several minutes, in which nobody looked at each other, then Harry heard the door open behind him . “Don’t be scared, dear, don’t get frightened,” said Professor Umbridge softly .
“Oh, very well, you silly girl, I’ll tell him,” snapped Umbridge . She hitched her sickly smile back onto her face and said, “Well, Minister, Miss Edgecombe here came to my office shortly after dinner this evening and told me she had something she wanted to tell me” But she merely shook her head again, her eyes wide and fearful .
Willy Widdershins, Minerva, was heavily bandaged, it is true, but his hearing was quite unimpaired . “He heard every word Potter said and hastened straight to the school to report to me!” Professor McGonagall raised her eyebrows .
Percy Weasley said Harry was in the Hog’s Head that day . Then he saw that Dumbledore was smiling gently too . Dolores is quite wrong to suggest such a group was, at that time, illegal .
Harry felt rustle behind him and thought Kingsley whispered something . He could have sworn too that he felt something brush against his side . “What do you mean by shaking your head, dear?” said Umbridge .
Professor Umbridge seized Marietta, pulled her around to face her, and began shaking her very hard . A split second later Dumbledore was on his feet, his wand raised . “You want to calm yourself, Madam Umbridge,” said Kingsley .
“Yes,” said Umbridge, pulling herself together, “yes ... well, Miss Edgecombe tipped me off and I proceeded at once to the seventh floor, so as to catch those in the meeting red-handed . It appears that they were forewarned of my arrival, however, because when we reached the 7th floor they were running in every direction . And to Harry’s horror, she withdrew from her pocket the list of names that had been pinned upon the Room of Re
Understanding blazed suddenly in Fudge’s face . He took a horrified step backward, yelped, and jumped out of the fire again . “You organized this?” he whispered, stamping again on his smoldering cloak .
“Yes, sir, I’ve got it, yes!” said Percy, scanning his notes joyfully . “You will now be escorted back to the Ministry, where you will be formally charged and then sent to Azkaban to await trial!” said Fudge .
Harry saw his hand drift, almost casually, toward his pocket . He looked towards Dumbledore again, but this time seemed to be hoping for a clue as to what to do next . “Don’t be silly, Dawlish,” said Dumbleredore kindly .
A hand grabbed the scruff of Harry’s neck and forced him down on the floor as a second silver flash went off . There was a bang like a gunshot, and the floor trembled . Then the sound of breaking glass, frantically scuffling footsteps, a groan — and silence.
“Where will you go, Dumbledore?” whispered Professor McGonagall . “I am not leaving to go into hiding. Fudge will soon wish he’d never dislodged me from Hogwarts, I promise you.” “Do everything Professor Snape tells you and practice it particularly every night before sleeping so that you can close your mind to bad dreams .
“Where is he?” yelled Fudge, pushing himself up from the ground . “You can’t inside this school —” “The stairs!” cried Dawlish, and he flung himself upon the door, wrenched it open, and disappeared . There was a long and painful silence .
Harry and Marietta were the only students to have witnessed the scene in Dumbledore’s office . As Marietta was now in the hospital wing, Harry found himself besieged with requests to give a firsthand account wherever he went . "They couldn’t keep him away in our second year and they won’t be able to this time," Ernie Macmillan confidently on the way back from Herbology .
Draco Malfoy had slid out from behind the door, followed by Crabbe and Goyle . “I know prefects can’t dock points, Weasel King,” sneered Malfay . "The what?” said Hermione sharply .
Gryffindor and Ravenclaw had been neck and neck in the lead that morning . Even as they watched, stones flew upward, reducing the amounts in the lower bulbs . “Noticed, have you?” said Fred furiously .
“— is exactly what our dear new Head deserves,” said Fred . “You really mustn’t! She’d love a reason to expel you!” said Hermione, smiling at her. “We’d walk out right now if we weren’t determined to do our bit for Dumbledore first,” Fred said .
Harry followed Filch back into the entrance hall, against the tide of hungry students . He said, “Things are changing around here, Potter.” “I’ve noticed,” said Harry coldly .
Umbridge was sitting behind the desk, busily scribbling upon some of her pink parchment . She looked up and smiled widely at their entrance . “Not at all, ma’am, not at all,” said Filch .
Umbridge raised the cup to his lips and then, just as suddenly, lowered it . Harry pretended to take a sip, though keeping his mouth tightly closed . “I don’t know where he is.” He said, looking displeased .
“No idea,” said Harry loudly. “Haven’t got a clue.” They stared at each other so long that Harry felt his eyes watering . The might of the Ministry stands behind me . A Floo Network Regulator is keeping watch over every fire in Hogwarts .
Dragons comprised entirely of green-and-gold sparks were soaring up and down the corridors . Shocking-pink Catherine wheels five feet in diameter were whizzing lethally through the air . Sparklers were writing swearwords in midair of their own accord .
The fireworks continued to burn and to spread all over the school that afternoon . Professor Umbridge spent her first afternoon as headmistress answering the summonses of the other teachers .
Fred and George were heroes that night in Gryffindor common room . Hermione fought her way through the excited crowd around them to congratulate them . “They were wonderful fireworks,” said George admiringly .
Harry had fallen into the corridor leading to the Department of Mysteries . He was speeding toward the plain black door. ... Let it open. .... It did. He crossed it, placed his hand upon an identical door, and it swung inward . Now he was in a dimly lit room as high and wide as a church . There were rows and rows of towering shelves, each laden with small, dusty, spun-glass spheres .
Harry lay still and silent while the pain in his scar subsided and disappointment washed over him . He felt as though a wonderful treat had been snatched from him at the very last moment . His stomach gave a sickening jolt as he remembered that he had Occlumency the following evening .
“Oh no, it was only ... Well, I just wanted to say ... Harry, I never dreamed Marietta would tell.” “Yeah, well,” said Harry moodily . “A lovely person who made a mistake? She sold us all out, including you!” said Cho pleadingly .
Harry descended the stairs to Snape’s dungeon . “You’re late, Potter,” said Snape coldly . He dropped the last silvery strand into the stone basin and turned to face Harry .
“I didn’t know,” Snape said, leering at Harry, who knew his face was burning . He would have given a great deal to be able to shout the truth at Malfoy . “They’ve found Montague, sir. He’s turned up jammed inside a toilet on the fourth floor,” asked Snape .
Harry took two steps toward the desk, thinking hard . Could it possibly be information about the Department of Mysteries that Snape was determined to keep from him? Would he come straight to his office afterward, or accompany Montague to the hospital wing? Surely the latter ... Snape would want to make sure he was all right .
Harry was standing in the middle of the Great Hall, but the four tables were gone . The only sound was the scratching of quills and the occasional rustle as somebody adjusted their parchment . It was clearly exam time. Sunshine was streaming through the high windows onto the bent heads, which shone chestnut and copper and gold in the bright light .
Harry was straightening up now, putting down his quill, pulling his roll of parchment toward him so as to reread what he had written . It was as though he was looking at himself but with deliberate mistakes . James’s eyes were hazel, his nose was slightly longer than Harry’s, and there was no scar on his forehead .
Harry stared at Wormtail for a moment, then back at James, who was now doodling on a bit of scrap parchment . He had drawn a Snitch and was now tracing the letters L. E. What did they stand for? “Quills down, please!” squeaked Professor Flitwick.
“Did you like question ten, Moony?” asked Sirius as they emerged into the entrance hall . “Think I did,” Lupin seriously, as they joined the crowd thronging .
Harry, Ron, and Hermione threw themselves down on the grass on the edge of the lake . He was as deeply immersed in the paper as ever, which left Harry free to sit down on grass . Sirius stared around at the students milling over the grass, looking rather haughty and bored, but very handsomely so . Every time James made a particularly difficult catch, Wormtail gasped and applauded .
Sirius had the distinct impression that Sirius was the only one for whom James would have stopped showing off . “We’ve still got Transfiguration, if you’re bored you could test me. Here.” Sirius snorted. “This’ll liven you up, Padfoot,” said James quietly . Lupin was still staring down at his book, though his eyes were not moving .
Students all around had turned to watch. Some looked apprehensive, others entertained. Snape lay panting on the ground . James and Sirius advanced on him, wands up, James glancing over his shoulder . “How’d the exam go, Snivelly?” said James .
Sirius and Wormtail roared with laughter . Lily said, “Let him down!” Sirius said . “You’re just an arrogant, bullying toerag, Potter. Leave him alone.” “I will if you go out with me, Evans,” Lily replied .
James and Sirius eyed it warily . “You’re lucky Evans was here, Snivellus!” Lily blinked. “I won’t bother in future. And I’d wash your pants if I were you,” Lily said .
“What is it with her?” said Sirius, trying and failing to look as though this was a throwaway question of no real importance to him . “Who wants to see me take off Snivelly’s pants?” Harry never found out . A hand had closed tight over his upper arm, closed with a pincerlike grip . The summer’s day evaporated around him, he was floating upward through icy blackness .
“No, of course I w —” “Get out, get out, I don’t want to see you in this office ever again!” And as Harry hurtled toward the door, a jar of dead cockroaches exploded over his head . He had no desire at all to return to Gryffindor Tower so early, nor to tell Ron and Hermione what he had just seen . “Why haven’t you got Occlumency lessons anymore?” said Herm
It was the first day of the Easter holidays and Hermione had spent a large part of the day drawing up study schedules for the three of them . Harry and Ron had let her do it — it was easier than arguing with her and, in any case, they might come in useful . Ron looked down each little square on Ron’s schedule so that it flashed a different color according to its subject . “Well, there you are,” Ron said, handing him his schedule, “if you follow
Harry had been so sure his parents had been wonderful people that he never had the slightest difficulty in disbelieving Snape’s aspersions on his father’s character . He had once overheard Professor McGonagall saying that his father and Sirius had been troublemakers at school, but she had described them as forerunners of the Weasley twins . Harry tried to make a case for Snape having deserved what he had suffered at James’s hands — but hadn’t
Harry was stuck with the rest of the fifth and seventh years, who were all trapped inside, traipsing back and forth to the library . Harry pretended that his bad mood had no other cause but the approaching exams, and as his fellow Gryffindors were sick of studying themselves, his excuse went unchallenged .
Ginny handed him a handsome chocolate egg decorated with small, iced Snitches . The lump in his throat was painful. He did not understand why an Easter egg should have made him feel like this .
Harry looked down the list and found that he was expected in Professor McGonagall’s office at half-past two on Monday . Harry and the other fifth years spent a considerable part of the final weekend of the Easter break reading all the career information that had been left there for their perusal.
“Well, I don’t fancy Healing,” said Ron on the last evening of the holidays . He was immersed in a leaflet that carried the crossed bone-and-wand emblem of St. Mungo’s on its front . “I mean ... blimey.... Don’t want much, do they?” said Hermione absently .
“Hey,” said Fred, stretching out his legs on the table in front of them . “Ginny’s had a word with us about you” said Fred .
Umbridge herself had told him that the only fire that was not being watched was her own . Hermione demanded of Ron, and Harry was reminded irresistibly of Mrs. Weasley appealing to her husband during Harry’s first dinner in Grimmauld Place .
Harry awoke very early the next day feeling almost as anxious as he had done on the morning of his hearing at the Ministry of Magic . It was not only the prospect of breaking into Umbridge’s office and using her fire to speak to Sirius that was making him feel nervous, though that was certainly bad enough . The sky was a clear, misty, opalescent blue . Directly ahead of him, Harry could see the towering beech tree below which his father had once tormented Snape
Harry and Ron were at least as inattentive to Professor Binns in History of Magic . She kept up a stream of whispered admonitions that Harry tried very hard to ignore . By the time they reached the dungeons, neither Harry nor Ron was speaking to Hermione any longer . Seamus spent five whole minutes checking his cauldron for leaks .
Harry was able to concoct an Invigoration Draught quite easily . At the end of the lesson he scooped some of the potion into a flask, corked it, and took it up to Snape’s desk for marking . “I’m really sorry, Harry, I thought you’d finished, so I cleared up!” said Hermione with her hands over her mouth .
Professor Umbridge was sitting on a clipboard on her knee, a pie-frill around her neck, and a small, horribly smug smile on her face . Harry sat down with his back to Umbridge and did his best to pretend he could not hear the scratching of her quill on her clipboard . “Well, Potter, this meeting is to talk over any career ideas you might have, and to help you decide which subjects you should continue into sixth and seventh years,” Professor McGon
Professor Umbridge gave a very tiny cough, as though she was trying to see how quietly she could do it . “You’ll want to know which subjects you ought to take, I suppose?” Professor McGonagall said . Then you should do Charms, always useful, and Potions .
Professor Umbridge had just coughed her loudest yet . "Oh no, thank you very much," said Professor McGonagall . “I daresay you’ll find you can,” said Professor Humphrey .
Professor Umbridge’s smile vanished as suddenly as a lightbulb blowing . Professor McGonagall turned back to Harry, her thin nostrils flared, her eyes burning . “I’m terribly sorry to have to contradict you, Minerva, but as you will see from my note, Harry has been achieving very poor results in his classes with me .
"Potter has a criminal record," said Professor Umbridge loudly . “Pottere has no chance whatsoever of becoming an Auror!” said Professor McGonagall .
Harry swung his bag over his shoulder and hurried out of the room . He could hear her and Professor McGonagall continuing to shout at each other . “I hope you’ve thought better of what you were planning to do, Harry,” Hermione whispered . There was nothing to stop him simply going back to Gryffindor Tower .
Harry’s heart beat very fast as he left the classroom . There were screams and yells reverberating from somewhere above them . Harry reached the corridor where Umbridge’s office was situated and found it deserted . He pulled open his bag, seized Sirius’s knife, and donned the Invisibility Cloak .
Harry inserted the blade of the magic knife into the crack around it and moved it gently up and down, then withdrew it . It was empty; nothing was moving except the horrible kittens on the plates continuing to frolic on the wall above the confiscated broomsticks . He crouched down in front of the empty grate, his hands shaking, and found what he was looking for within seconds .
“I’ll call him,” said Lupin, still looking perplexed . “He went upstairs to look for Kreacher, he seems to be hiding in the attic again.” Harry saw Lupin hurry out of the kitchen . Lupin returned with Sirius at his heels moments later .
“Look, Harry,” said Sirius placatingly, “I thought he was a bit of an idiot!” said Lupin . “We were all idiots! Well — not Moony so much,” Lupin said .
“Did I ever tell you to lay off Snape?” Sirius said . “You made us feel ashamed of ourselves sometimes. That was something.” Sirius asked miserably. “He couldn’t stop himself showing off whenever he got near her.” “Nah, she didn’t,” Lupin said.
“I’m coming up there to have a word with Snape!” said Harry . “I can’t tell him that, he’d kill me!” said Lupin sternly. “Okay, okay,” said Harry, thoroughly discomposed .
Harry dived for the Invisibility Cloak and had just managed to pull it back over himself when Filch burst into the office . He pulled out a piece of parchment, kissed it, then shuffled rapidly back out of the door, clutching it to his chest . Filch was hobbling along faster than Harry had ever seen him go .
Trelawney had been sacked from his job . Students were standing all around the walls in a great ring . Peeves, who was bobbing overhead, gazed upon Fred and George .
Fred and George’s broomsticks were hurtling along the corridor toward their owners . They turned left, streaked down the stairs, and stopped sharply in front of the twins . “Yeah, don’t bother to keep in touch,” said George, mounting his own .
Umbridge and Filch had been observed trying different means of removing it but without success . Then there were two large broom-shaped holes in Umbridge’s office door . Filch fitted a new door and removed Harry’s Firebolt to the dungeons .
Troublemakers-in-Chief students were vying for the newly vacant positions . In spite of the new door, somebody managed to slip a hairy-snouted niffler into Umbridge’s office . It became the new fashion for students to perform Bubble-Head Charms on themselves . The Inquisitorial Squad were attempting to help him .
Peeves smashed lanterns and snuffed out candles, juggled burning torches over the heads of screaming students . He flooded the second floor when he pulled off all the taps in the bathrooms . To cap matters, Montague had still not recovered from his sojourn in the toilet .
Harry’s spouted four very thin spindly legs that hoisted the cup off the desk with great difficulty, trembled for a few seconds, then folded, causing the cup to crack into two . “Why should I be worried about you?” said Ron irritably, mending Ron’s cup with a wave of her wand .
“I’ve been wondering whether Mundungus has persuaded them to sell stolen goods or something awful.” “He hasn’t,” said Harry curtly . “Because —” Harry hesitated, but the moment to confess finally seemed to have come . There was no good to be gained in keeping silent if anyone suspected Fred and George were criminals .
Harry had a shrewd suspicion that her self-restraint was bound to crack before long . Ron snorted disbelievingly and Hermione threw him a very dirty look . “No, I wasn’t!” she said angrily .
"I dreamed I was watching you lot play Quidditch," Harry lied brutally . "I was trying to get you to stretch out a bit farther to grab the Quaffle," Ron's ears went red . The truth was that he was so intensely curious about what was hidden .
The problem was that with just under a month to go until the exams, his mind seemed saturated with information when he went to bed so that he found it very difficult to get to sleep at all . He suspected that part of his mind now felt guilty on the occasions it strayed down that corridor ending in the black door . “Yeah, I s’pose so,” said Harry, losing track of what he was agreeing to: Cho Chang had just walked across the courtyard, determinedly not looking
Harry and Hermione groaned with the rest of the Gryffindors . They found seats in the topmost row of the stands . It was a fine, clear day . Ron could not wish for better, and Harry found himself hoping against hope .
Hagrid was bent double as though anxious not to be seen, though he was still at least four feet taller than everybody else . Hagrid’s nose was gently dripping blood. His eyes were both blackened .
“Yeah, well, a bit o’ trouble wouldn’ hurt,” said Hagrid . Harry and Hermione ran to catch up with Hagrid, shrugging his massive shoulders . “You didn’t bring your crossbow the day you showed us the thestrals,” said Harry .
“An’ anyway, tha’ was before Firenze left the forest, wasn’t it?” asked Hermione curiously . “They used ter be — well, yeh couldn’’ call ’em friendly — but we got on all righ’” Harry asked, tripping on a protruding root because he was busy watching Hagrid’s profile .
Hagrid fell silent and forged a little ahead, so that they had great trouble keeping up with him . The path was becoming increasingly overgrown and the trees grew so closely together as they walked farther and farther into the forest that it was as dark as dusk . Hagrid stepped unexpectedly off the path and began wending his way in and out of trees toward the dark heart of the forest .
Hagrid's arms and legs were covered in small cuts and scratches . They were so deep in the forest now that sometimes all Harry could see of Hagrid in the gloom was a massive dark shape ahead of him . The breaking of a twig echoed loudly and the tiniest rustle of movement, though it might have been made by an innocent sparrow .
Harry and Hermione both made noises of protest . Hagrid overrode them with a wave of one of his enormous hands . "I’ll be able ter help Dumbledore once I’m outta here, I can be useful ter the Order."
Hagrid gave a great sniff and patted Harry wordlessly on the shoulder with such force that Harry was knocked sideways into a tree . “I knew yeh’d say yes,” said Hagrid into his handkerchief, “but I won’ ... never ... forget ... Well... c’mon ... jus’ a little bit further through here ... Watch yerselves, now there’s nettles.” They walked on in silence for another fifteen minutes
Harry looked sideways at Hermione, who was gazing at the mound with her mouth slightly open . He looked from her to Hagrid and then, as realization hit him, he looked back at it with a small gasp of horror . The great mound of earth, on which he could easily have stood, was moving slowly up and down in time .
“Oh Hagrid, why did you bring him back if he didn’t want to come, wouldn’t he have been happier with his own people?” said Hermione . “They were bullyin’ him, Hermimione, ’cause he’s so small!” said Hagrid .
“What do you think you’re going to do with a violent giant who doesn’t even want to be here!” said Hermione, flopping down onto a ripped-up tree and burying her face in her hands . “Well, now — ‘violent’ — tha’s a bit harsh,” said Hagrid .
Harry and Hermione exchanged miserable looks . Harry said nothing, but turned to look back at the gigantic form lying asleep on the ground in front of them . Grawp looked strangely misshapen .
“You want us to teach him,” Harry said in a hollow voice . “Yeah — even if yeh jus’ talk ter him a bit,” said Hagrid .
Grawp knelt between two trees he had not yet uprooted . It was as though features had been hewn onto a great stone ball . The nose was stubby and shapeless, the mouth lopsided and full of misshapen yellow teeth the size of half-bricks .
Hagrid had seized a bird’s nest from the upper branches of a towering pine . He turned it upside down with a roar of apparent displeasure that there was no bird in it . “Anyway, Grawpy,” shouted Hagrid, looking up apprehensively .
Harry and Hermione stood behind the tree, shaking and whimpering . “An’ this is Hermy, Grawp! An’ she’s gonna be comin’ an’ all!” Harry heard Hagrid yelling . He saw Hagrid lying on his back, his hand over his nose .
Hagrid shouldered his crossbow again and led the way back into the trees . Harry and Hermione were struggling through a patch of thick knotgrass behind him . He pulled an arrow out of the quiver over his shoulder and fitted it into the crossbow .
A man’s naked torso seemed for an instant to be floating toward them through the dappled green half-light . The centaur had a proud, high-cheekboned face and long black hair . Harry recognized the black-bodied and bearded Bane .
Hagrid said: “No more is it up to you, Hagrid,” said Magorian . “I shall let you pass today because you are accompanied by your young —” “They’re not his!” interrupted Bane contemptuously .
Harry and Hermione pushed with all their might against Hagrid’s moleskin waistcoat in an effort to keep him moving forward . He looked down; his expression changed to mild surprise at the sight of them both pushing him . “If the centaurs don’t want humans in the forest, it doesn’t really look as though Harry and I will be able,” said Hagrid .
“I reckon it’s over, yeh know!” said Harry . “Well ... see you later, then, Hagrid.” “I don’t believe him,” said Hermione in a very unsteady voice .
Weasley is our King ... “Oh, let’s get in before we have to meet the Slytherins,” said Hermione . “HARRY! HERMIONE!” yelled Ron, waving the silver Quidditch Cup in the air . The crowd squeezed itself into the entrance hall and out of sight .
Harry and Hermione found it very difficult to find an opening in which to mention Grawp . O.W.L.S Ron’s euphoria at helping Gryffindor scrape the Quidditch Cup was such that he could not settle to anything next day .
Ron said, stopping mid-sentence at the look on Harry’s face . The truth was that Ron had reminded Harry forcibly of another Gryffindor Quidditch player who had once sat rumpling his hair under this very tree . “I’m just glad we won, that’s all.” “Yeah,” said Harry slowly, savoring the words, “we won .
“Well, actually ... no, Ron,” said Hermione, looking at him apologetically . “You didn’t watch?” Ron said faintly, looking from one to the other . The story was told in five minutes, by the end of which Ron’s indignation had been replaced .
“Yes, I’m starting to think he has. But unfortunately, he made Harry and me promise.” “Well, you’re just going to have to break your promise, that’s all,” said Ron firmly . “I know, it’s just that — we promised,” said Hermione in small voice . The castle grounds were gleaming in the sunlight as though freshly painted .
Ernie Macmillan had developed an irritating habit of interrogating people about their study habits . Harry was deeply thankful that Professor Sprout ushered them into greenhouse three at that point, forcing him to abandon his recital .
“I don’t think it’s true,” said Neville quietly from behind them . “Gran’s always telling Professor Marchbanks I’m not as good as my dad. Well... you saw what she’s like at St. Mungo’s.” Neville looked fixedly at the floor .
Harry and Ron were much tempted by the bottle of Baruffio’s Brain Elixir offered to them by Ravenclaw sixth year Eddie Carmichael . He assured Harry he would reimburse him for his half the moment he left Hogwarts and got a job, but before they could close the deal, Hermione had confiscated the bottle . “Dingle’s got powdered dragon claw?” said Ron eagerly .
Your O.W.L.s are spread over two successive weeks . You will sit the theory exams in the mornings and the practice in the afternoons . Your practical Astronomy examination will, of course, take place at night .
Harry agreed to test Hermione after lunch on Sunday but regretted it almost at once . She kept snatching the book back from him to check that she had gotten the answer completely right, finally hitting him hard on the nose with the sharp edge of Achievements in Charming . Harry and Ron whipped around on their bench .
Harry thought Professor Marchbanks must be the tiny, stooped witch with a face so lined it looked as though it had been draped in cobwebs . “Now, I haven’t heard from Dumbledore lately!” she said impatiently .
Harry went to bed early but lay awake for what felt like hours . He knew that he was not the only one lying awake, but none of the others spoke . None of the fifth and seventh years talked very much at breakfast next day either .
Harry had a fleeting memory of a club soaring high into the air and landing loudly on a troll skull . Harry walked into the Great Hall clutching his wand so tightly his hand shook . "We’re not going through every exam afterward, it’s bad enough doing them once"
Professor Flitwick pointed Harry towards what looked like the very oldest and baldest examiner . “Professor Tofty is free, Potter,” squeaked Professor Flitswick . Harry was sitting behind a small table in a far corner, a short distance from Professor Marchbanks .
Harry forgot the definition of a Switching Spell during his written exam next morning, but thought his practical could have been a lot worse . At least he managed to vanish the whole of his iguana, whereas Hannah Abbott lost her head completely at the next table and somehow managed to multiply her ferret into a flock of flamingos . The examination was halted for ten minutes while the birds were captured and carried out of the Hall .
Harry and Ron had a day off while Hermione sat her Ancient Runes exam . As they had the whole weekend in front of them, they allowed themselves a break from studying . They stretched and yawned beside the open window, through which warm summer air wafted over them . “I mistranslated ‘ehwaz,’” said Ron furiously .
“It is not good!” said Hermione . “I’ve got Arithmancy and it’s probably the toughest subject there is!” said Parvati Patil wearily .
Harry was determined to perform well in Tuesday’s Care of Magical Creatures exam so as not to let Hagrid down . The practical examination took place in the afternoon on the edge of the Forbidden Forest . Students were required to correctly identify the knarl hidden among a dozen hedgehogs .
Harry laughed just as Hermione came running up behind them . He stopped laughing at once, in case it annoyed her . The grounds were bathed in silvery moonlight, and there was a slight chill in the air . Each of them set up his or her telescope and proceeded to fill in the blank star chart .
Harry glanced down as he made a slight adjustment to the position of his telescope . The doors opened directly below the parapet where he was standing, so that light spilled down the stone steps a little way across the lawn . Harry put his eye back to his telescope and refocused it, now examining Venus .
Harry bent over his star chart and pretended to be adding notes to it . Figures were now moving across the cabin windows, temporarily blocking the light . He could feel Professor Marchbanks’ eyes on the back of his neck and pressed his eye again to his telescope .
“My dear!” said Professor Tofty in a scandalized voice . “This is an examination!” But nobody paid him the slightest attention . They were watching the person now sprinting toward the battle beside Hagrid’s cabin . He was still upright and still fighting .
Hermione, Parvati, and Lavender all screamed . No fewer than four Stunners had shot from the figures around the cabin toward Professor McGonagall . For a moment she looked luminous, illuminated by an eerie red glow . Professor Tofty seemed to have forgotten the exam completely .
Harry had only filled in two-thirds of his chart . When it came at last he, Ron, and Hermione forced their telescopes haphazardly back into their holders and dashed back down the spiral staircase . “I ’spect he’s gone to join Dumbledore, hasn’t he?” Ron said .
Seamus and Dean had arrived ahead of Harry, Ron, and Hermione . “It’s not like Trelawney, he’s been teaching much better than usual this year!” said Angelina Johnson .
Harry fell asleep contemplating hideous revenges and arose from bed three hours later feeling distinctly unrested . Their final exam, History of Magic, was not to take place until that afternoon . The fifth years entered the Great Hall at two o’clock and took their places in front of their overturned examination papers .
Harry had a stab at question four: How was the Statute of Secrecy breached in 1749? but had nagging suspicion that he had missed several important points . He could visualize a heading in Hermione’s handwriting: The Formation of the International Confederation of Wizards .
All around Harry quills scratched out never-ending answers and the sand trickled through the hourglass at the front . Harry closed his eyes and buried his face in his hands, so that the glowing red of his eyelids grew dark and cool . The confederation had met for the first time in France .
He jogged the last few feet to the third door, which swung open just like the others . When he reached number ninety-seven he turned left and hurried along the aisle between two rows . There was a shape on the floor at the very end, a black shape moving upon the floor like a wounded animal .
Harry hit the ground and awoke, still yelling, his scar on fire, as the Great Hall erupted all around him . He was gibbering, trying to pull away from Professor Tofty, who had just helped Harry out into the entrance hall while the students all around them stared . “I’m — I’m fine, sir,” Harry stammered, wiping the sweat from his face . The examination is nearly over, but you may be able to round off
“I need to see Professor McGonagall,” gasped Harry, the breath tearing his lungs . “She’s not here, Potter,” said Madam Pomfrey sadly. “I don’t wonder you’re shocked, Potter” said Harry .
“Harry!” said Hermione at once, looking very frightened . “Where have you been?” asked Ron. “Come on, I’ve got to tell you something....” He led them along the first-floor corridor, peering through doorways, and at last found an empty classroom into which he dived .
“I dunno, Voldemort used an Invisibility Cloak or something!” Harry shouted . “You’ve never been there, Harry,” said Hermione quietly .
“You know what, I’ve just thought of something,” said Ron in a hushed voice . “Sirius’s brother was a Death Eater, wasn’t he? Maybe he told Sirius the secret of how to get the weapon!” said Harry. “No proof for any of this, no proof Voldemort and Sirius are even there —” she said .
“That’s funny,” said Harry in a trembling voice, “because I definitely remember Ron saying I’d wasted time acting the hero again?” “No, no, no!” said Hermione . “Well, spit out what you’ve got to say, because we’re wasting time here!” said Harry .
“You don’t get it!” Harry shouted at her. “I’m not just dreaming! What d’you think all the Occlumency was for? Because they’re REAL, Hermione — Sirius is trapped — I’ve seen him — Voldemort’s got him, and no one else knows, and that means we’re the only ones who can save him . But Harry, you’ve just said it!” said Ron fiercely .
“Well, you can’t,” said Harry shortly. “You’re being rather rude, you know,” said Luna . “I’ve told you, I saw —” “Harry, I’m begging you, please!” said Hermione desperately .
“I’ll tell her Peeves is smashing up the Transfiguration department or something, it’s miles away from her office,” said Ron at once . It was a mark of the seriousness of the situation that Hermione made no objection . “Okay,” said Ginny promptly, “and warn people not to go down there because someone’s let off a load of Garroting Gas.” “I mean, you can — can check whether Sirius is at home or not while I keep
Harry flung himself out of the room and began to fight his way through the milling crowds outside Umbridge’s office . He scrambled through the portrait hole while they were still arguing about how many black-market butterbeers they would need and was climbing back out of it . Harry was already tearing away back along the corridor, and a couple of minutes later was jumping the last few stairs to join Ron, Hermione, Ginny, and Luna, who were huddled together at
Ron strode away, his bright red hair visible right to the end of the passage . “Get over here,” muttered Hermione, tugging at Harry’s wrist and pulling him back into a recess where the ugly stone head of a medieval wizard stood muttering to itself . In truth, his scar was aching, but not so badly that he thought Voldemort had yet dealt Sirius a fatal blow .
The news about the Garroting Gas seemed to have spread . When at last the surrounding area was quite clear, Hermione said quietly, “I think that’s as good as we’re going to get, Harry — come on, let’s do it.” Together they moved forward, covered by the cloak .
Kreacher the house-elf came creeping into view . He looked highly delighted about something, though he seemed to have recently sustained a nasty injury to both hands, which were heavily bandaged .
“Master does not tell poor Kreacher where he is going,” said the elf quietly . “Don’t you? You know!” shouted Harry. “You — !” And he scurried forward and disappeared through the door to the hall . He inhaled a lot of ash and, choking, found himself being dragged backward through the flames .
Umbridge threw Harry’s wand into the air one-handed and then caught it again . There was a commotion outside and several large Slytherins entered, each gripping Ron, Ginny, Luna, and — to Harry's bewilderment — Neville, who looked in imminent danger of suffocation .
Malfoy and a few of the other members of the Inquisitorial Squad laughed some more at that . Harry found he was full of rage and hatred . He had just realized something; he could not believe he had been so stupid as to forget it .
Ron’s lip was bleeding onto Umbridge’s carpet as he struggled against Warrington’s half nelson . Neville was turning steadily more purple in the face while tugging at Crabbe’s arms . Hermione was attempting vainly to throw Millicent Bulstrode off her . Luna stood limply by the side of her captor, gazing vaguely out of the window .
“I wish you to provide me with a potion that will force him to tell me the truth!” said Snape . Voldemort’s got Sirius — “You are on probation!” shrieked Professor Umbridge, and Snape looked back at her .
Snape looked at Umbridge, who seemed to be feeling the same way . She was shifting her weight nervously from foot to foot, staring at Harry . There was a nasty, eager, excited look on her face that Harry had never seen before .
“What Cornelius doesn’t know won’t hurt him,” said Umbridge . “He never knew I ordered dementors after Potter last summer, but he was delighted to be given the chance to expel him, all the same.” “Somebody had to act,” breathed Umbridge, as her wand came to rest pointing directly at Harry’s forehead .
Ginny was staring at Hermione as though she had never seen her before . But there was no trace of a tear . “I’m — I’m sorry everyone,” said Harry .
“What’s ready?” demanded Umbridge, and now her eyes seemed to pop with excitement . “You have been developing some method of resistance? A weapon you could use against the Ministry?” “Y-y-yes,” gasped Hermione .
Umbridge glanced swiftly and suspiciously around at her Inquisitorial Squad . Her bulging eyes resting for a moment on Malfoy, who was too slow to disguise the look of eagerness and greed that had appeared on his face . Umbridge contemplated Hermione for another long moment .
The sun was falling toward the tops of the trees in the Forbidden Forest now as Hermione marched purposefully across the grass . Their long dark shadows rippled over the grass behind them like cloaks . Harry felt a strong urge to swing around and seize her by the throat, but resisted .
Harry tried to catch Hermione’s eye; walking into the forest without wands seemed to him to be more foolhardy than anything they had done so far this evening . Umbridge asked, as her robe ripped on a bramble . “Yes, it’s well hidden.” Harry’s misgivings increased .
Around fifty centaurs were emerging on every side, their bows raised and loaded, pointing at Harry, Hermione, and Umbridge . The chestnut-bodied centaur called Magorian was walking toward them out of the circle; his bow, like the others’, was raised .
“What did you call us?” shouted a wild-looking black centaur, Harry recognized as Bane . There was a great deal of angry muttering and tightening of bowstrings around them . “Don’t call them that!” Hermione said furiously .
Umbridge pointed her wand at Magorian and screamed, “Incarcerous!” Ropes flew out of midair like thick snakes, wrapping themselves tightly around the centaur’s torso and trapping his arms . He reared onto his hind legs, attempting to free himself, while the other centaurs charged .
“Now!” roared a voice in Harry’s ear and a thick hairy arm descended from thin air and dragged him upright; Hermione too had been pulled to her feet . “They are young,” said a slow, doleful voice from behind Harry. “We do not attack foals.” “They brought her here, Ronan,” replied the centaur who had such a firm grip on Harry.
“We do not help humans!” snarled the centaur holding Harry, tightening his grip and rearing a little at the same time, so that Harry’s feet left the ground momentarily . “We are a race apart and proud to be so. We will not permit you to walk from here, boasting that we did your bidding!” “We’re not going to say anything like that!” Harry shouted. “They came here unasked, they must pay the consequences!” shoute
Grawp’s lopsided mouth was gaping stupidly. They could see his bricklike yellow teeth glimmering in the half-light, his dull sludge-colored eyes narrowed as he squinted down at the creatures at his feet . Broken ropes trailed from both ankles. He opened his mouth even wider . “Hagger.” Harry did not know what “hagger” meant, nor did he much care .
“I’m sorry, Grawp, I don’t know!” squealed Hermione, terrified . “He — he remembered!” “HERMY!” roared Harry, terrified. “Oh, that was horrible. And he might kill them all.” He said .
“Really smart plan. Where do we go from here?” he spat at Hermione, keen to release some of his fury . “By the time we’ve done that, Sirius’ll probably be dead!” said Harry .
Ginny was best, she got Malfoy — Bat-Bogey Hex — it was superb, his whole face was covered in the great flapping things . “No, they got chased off by Grawp,” said Harry .
“You’re too —” Harry began . “I’m three years older than you were when you fought You-Know-Who over the Sorcerer’s Stone,” Ginny said fiercely . „I’ve been all in the D.A. together,” said Neville quietly .
“The Crumple-Horned Snorkack can’t fly,” said Luna in a dignified voice, “but they can, and Hagrid says they’re very good at finding places their riders are looking for.” “Yes!” he whispered, moving toward them . “Is it those mad horse things?” said Ron uncertainly .
Harry felt a soft tug on his robes at that moment and looked down to see the closest thestral licking his sleeve, which was damp with Grawp’s blood . “I’m not staying behind!” said Hermione furiously .
“How’re we supposed to get on?” said Ron faintly. “When we can’t see the things?” said Luna . “Oh it’s easy,” said Luna, sliding obligingly from her thestral and marching over to him, Hermione, and Ginny. “You’d better hope it stays invisible,” said Harry darkly.
Harry saw five fellows soaring along behind him, each bent as low as possible into the neck of their thestral to protect themselves from its slipstream . In the falling darkness Harry saw small collections of lights as they passed over more villages, then a winding road on which a single car was beetling its way home through the hills .
Harry’s face felt stiff and cold, his legs numb from gripping the thestral’s sides so tightly, but he did not dare shift positions lest he slip . Harry had lost all sense of how far they had come; all his faith was in the beast below him, still streaking purposefully through the night, barely flapping its wings as it sped ever onward . Thestral's head was suddenly pointing toward the ground and he had actually slid forward a
Ron and Ginny marched in obediently; Hermione, Neville, and Luna squashed themselves in after them; Harry forced himself into the box after Luna . The cool female voice sounded inside the box, “Welcome to the Ministry of Magic. Please state your name and business.”
Half a dozen badges slid out of the metal chute where returned coins usually appeared . Hermione scooped them up and handed them mutely to Harry over Ginny’s head . “Now can we move?” The floor of the telephone box shuddered and the pavement rose up past the glass windows . The scavenging thestrals were sliding out of sight, blackness closed over their heads .
Harry felt sure there ought to be a security person there, sure that their absence was an ominous sign . Harry stabbed the number nine button, the grilles closed with a bang, and the lift began to descend, jangling and rattling . When the lift halted, the cool female voice said, “Let’s go,” he whispered .
In his dream, Harry had always walked purposefully across this room to the door immediately opposite the entrance and walked on . There was a great rumbling noise and the candles began to move sideways . Harry’s eyes had blue streaks burned into them; it was all he could see . “What was that about?” whispered Ron fearfully .
"How’re we going to get back out?" said Neville uncomfortably . "We won’t need to get out till we’ve found Sirius —" "Don’t go calling for him," Hermione said urgently .
"Let’s get out of here," said Ron, pointing around the walls . The ghostly shapes of the brains were now swimming before Harry’s eyes instead of the blue candle flames . When all became still again, the fiery cross still burned .
A stone archway was hung with a tattered veil which was fluttering slightly as though it had just been touched . Harry scrambled down the benches one by one until he reached the stone bottom of the sunken pit . The pointed archway looked much taller from where he stood now than when he had been looking down on it from above .
Hermione felt a strong inclination to climb up on the dais and walk through it . There were faint whispering, murmuring noises coming from the other side of the veil . “I’m here, mate,” said Ron, appearing around the archway .
Harry approached a door at random and pushed. It did not move . “What’s wrong?” said Hermione, throwing his weight at the door, but it did not budge . "Bound to be!” said Harry, pointing her wand at the place where a lock would have been on an ordinary door .
Harry pulled it out from inside his robes and slid it into the crack between the door and the wall . The others watched eagerly as Harry ran it from top to bottom, withdrew it, and then flung his shoulder again at the door . “It can’t be, Harry could get through all the doors in his dream,” said Ron .
Harry’s heart was pumping frantically now that he knew they were on the right track . He led the way forward down the narrow space between the lines of the desks, heading for the source of the light . “Oh look!” said Ginny, as they drew nearer pointing at the very heart of the bell jar .
“You said it was row ninety-seven,” whispered Hermione . They crept forward, staring behind them as they went on down the long alleys of shelves . Some of them had a weird, liquid glow; others were as dull and dark within as blown lightbulbs .
“Somewhere about ... here ...” said Harry, but eagerly this time he strode back to where they were all standing, a little way down row ninety-seven, but found nothing except Ron staring at one of the dusty glass spheres on the shelves . “I ... I don’t think Sirius is here.” Nobody spoke. He did not understand why Sirius was not here. He had to be here. This was where he, Harry, had seen him. There was
Ron was pointing at one of the small glass spheres that glowed with a dull inner light . He had to crane his neck to read the yellowish label affixed to the shelf beneath the dusty glass ball . “I’m not here,” Ron asked, sounding unnerved .
“To me, Potter,” repeated the drawling voice of Lucius Malfoy as he held out his hand, palm up . Harry’s insides plummeted sickeningly. They were trapped and outnumbered two to one . “Now, give me the prophecy, Potter.” “I want to know where Sirius is!” mimicked Harry .
“I know Sirius is here,” said Malfoy, though panic was causing his chest to constrict and he felt as though he could not breathe properly . “Now give me the prophecy, or we start using wands,” said Harry . If Sirius really was not here, the Death Eaters did not strike .
Azkaban had hollowed Bellatrix Lestrange’s face, making it gaunt and skull-like, but it was alive with a feverish, fanatical glow . He stepped sideways so that he was right in front of her, the prophecy held up to his chest . “You’ll have to smash this if you want to attack any of us,” said Harry .
“You dare speak his name?” whispered Bellatrix . “Yeah, I’ve got no problem saying Vol —” “Shut your mouth!” shrieked Harry .
Harry moved his foot slowly sideways, feeling around for someone else’s . A sharp intake of breath behind him told him they were Hermione’s. “What?” she whispered. “Can this be?” said Harry sneeringly .
Harry stared into the slitted eyeholes through which Malfoy’s gray eyes were gleaming . “Someone made a prophecy about Voldemort and me?” he said quietly . The Dark Lord, walk into the Ministry of Magic, when they are so sweetly ignoring his return?
“NOW!” yelled Harry. Five different voices behind him bellowed “REDUCTO!” Five curses flew in five different directions and the shelves opposite them exploded as they hit . The towering structure swayed as a hundred glass spheres burst apart, pearly-white figures unfurled into the air and floated there, their voices echoing from who knew what long-dead past amid the torrent of crashing glass and splintered wood now raining down upon the
“Leave Nott, leave him, I say, the Dark Lord will not care for Nott’s injuries as much as losing that prophecy — Jugson, come back here, we need to organize! We’ll split into pairs and search, and don’t forget, be gentle with Potter until we’ve got the prophecies, you can kill the others if necessary .
Harry, Hermione, and Neville dived under desks as door flew open . They could see the bottom of the two Death Eaters’ robes drawing nearer . “They might’ve run straight through to the hall,” said another . The second Death Eater, however, had leapt aside to avoid Harry’s spell .
The Death Eater snatched up his wand, which lay on the floor beside the bell jar . Harry ducked down behind another desk as the man turned — his mask had slipped so that he could not see, he ripped it off with his free hand and shouted, “STUP —” screamed Hermione, who had just caught up with them . The jet of red light hit the man in the middle of his chest . He fro
The Death Eater pulled his head out of the bell jar . His appearance was utterly bizarre, his tiny baby’s head bawling loudly . Hermione seized his arm . “You can’t hurt a baby!” Harry said again .
Harry, Hermione, and Neville were all knocked backward off their feet . Neville was thrown over the desk and disappeared from view . Harry smashed into a bookcase and was promptly deluged in a cascade of heavy books .
The Death Eater kicked out hard at Neville’s head as he emerged . Neville gave a howl of pain and recoiled, his own wand held up in front of him . Harry twisted around and saw that the Death Eaters had ripped off his mask . He pointed from the prophecy still clutched in Harry’s hand, to himself .
“Hermione, wake up....” “Whaddid he do to her?” said Neville . “Dat’s a pulse, Harry, I’b sure id is....” Such a powerful wave of relief swept through Harry . There was a pause in which Harry listened hard for the sounds of more footsteps .
Harry snatched up Hermione’s wand from the floor and shoving it into Neville’s hand . “My gran’s going do kill be,” said Neville thickly, blood spattering from his nose as he spoke . The baby-headed Death Eater was screaming and banging into things .
Ron’s face was very white and something dark was trickling from the corner of his mouth . Next moment his knees had given way, but he still clutched the front of Harry’s robes . “Ginny?” Harry said fearfully. “What happened?” But Ginny shook her head and slid down the wall into a sitting position .
Harry pulled Ron’s arm over his shoulder just as he had pulled Dudley’s . They were within a few feet of it when another door burst open and three Death Eaters sped into the hall . “It doesn’t matter!” said a man’s voice .
Five Death Eaters were surging into the room through the door she had not reached in time . Luna hit a desk, slid over its surface and onto the floor on the other side where she lay sprawled, as still as Hermione . “Hey, Harry, there are brains in here, ha ha ha, isn’t that weird, Harry?” Ron said . The scene seemed momentarily frozen .
“Harry, come and touch it, bet it’s weird —” Harry said . He darted forward but Ron had already caught the brain in his outstretched hands . The moment they made contact with his skin, the tentacles began wrapping themselves around Ron’s arms like ropes . “Diffindo!” yelled Harry, trying to sever the feelers wrapping themselves tightly around Ron before his eyes .
Harry and Neville were now the only two left fighting the Death Eaters . They were knocking chairs and tables flying but not daring to bewitch him in case they hurt the prophecy . He ran a few feet into the new room and felt the floor vanish . The whole room was ringing with Neville’s laughter .
The Death Eaters halted Neville from behind, pointing his wand at each Death Eater in turn, “STUBEFY! STUBE —” Neville shouted again . “It’s Longbottom, isn’t it?” sneered Lucius Malfoy. “Why, I have had the pleasure of meeting your parents, boy....”
“I DOE YOU HAB!” roared Neville, and he fought so hard against his captor’s encircling grip that the Death Eater shouted, “Someone Stun him!” “No, no, no,” said Bellatrix . “DON’D GIB ID DO DEM, HARRY!” Neville screamed .
Malfoy turned and raised his wand, but Tonks had already sent a Stunning Spell right at him . The Death Eaters were completely distracted by the appearance of the members of the Order, who were now raining spells down upon them . He dodged another jet of red light and flung himself flat on the ground to reach Neville .
Neville had come lunging out of nowhere: he jabbed Hermione’s wand hard into the eyehole of the Death Eater’s mask . It was Macnair, Buckbeak’s would-be killer, one of his eyes now swollen and bloodshot . Then Harry’s foot made contact with something round and hard and he slipped . He saw Moody’s magic eye spinning away across the floor .
Sirius hurtled out of nowhere, rammed Dolohov with his shoulder, and sent him flying out of the way . The prophecy had again flown to the tips of Harry’s fingers but he had managed to cling to it . Sirius drew back his wand to make the same slashing movement as Harry had used on Harry and Hermione .
Harry heaved — Neville’s legs were still flying in every direction, they would not support him and then, out of nowhere, a man lunged at them . Harry flung the prophecy across the floor, Neville spun himself around on his back and scooped the ball to his chest . As Harry scrambled up again he saw Malfoy smash into the dais on which Sirius and Bellatrix were dueling .
Neville’s robes flew some ten feet to their right and smashed on the step beneath them . The pearly-white figure with hugely magnified eyes rose into the air . “Harry, I’b sorry!” cried Neville, his face anguished as his legs continued to flounder . Harry felt a kind of electric charge surge through every particle of his body .
Dumbledore was already at the foot of the steps when the Death Eaters nearest realized he was there . There were yells; one of the Dead Eaters ran for it, scrabbling like a monkey up the stone steps opposite . Harry saw Sirius duck Bellatrix’s jet of red light: He was laughing at her . It seemed to take Sirius an age to fall .
Lupin grabbed Harry around the chest, holding him back . “There’s nothing you can do, Harry ... nothing. He’s gone!” Harry yelled . Lupin did not understand, people hid behind that curtain, he heard them whispering the first time he had entered the room .
Sirius had risked everything, always, to see Harry, to help him . Dumbledore had most of the remaining Death Eaters grouped in the middle of the room, seemingly immobilized by invisible ropes . “Harry?” Neville had slid down the stone benches one by one to the place where Harry stood .
Harry saw Bellatrix Lestrange, yelling in pain, hit the ground . He aimed a spell at her but she deflected it . She was halfway up the steps now — “Harry — no!” cried Lupin . “SHE KILLED SIRIUS!” bellowed Harry .
He sprinted up the passageway, swung around the corner, and slammed his fist onto the button to call a second lift . It jangled and banged lower and lower; the grilles slid open and Harry dashed inside, now hammering the button marked Atrium . He dodged behind the Fountain of Magical Brethren; the spell zoomed past him .
Bellatrix screamed, “Crucio!” and he was forced to duck down again as the centaur’s arm spun off and landed with a crash on the floor a short distance from the golden wizard’s head . “I was and am the Dark Lord’s most loyal servant, I learned the Dark Arts from him, and I know spells of such power that you, pathetic little boy, can never hope to compete —” she cried .
Harry roared — and as he shouted it, pain seared across his forehead . His scar was on fire again, and he felt a surge of fury that was quite unconnected with his own rage . “Your dear old mate Voldemort knows it’s gone!” she cried .
Lord Voldemort had appeared in the middle of the hall, his wand pointing at Harry who stood frozen, quite unable to move . “Master, I am sorry, I knew not, I was fighting the Animagus Black!” sobbed Bellatrix .
The golden statue of the wizard in the fountain had sprung alive, leaping from its plinth, and landed on the floor with a crash between Harry and Voldemort . The spell merely glanced off its chest as the statue flung out its arms, protecting Harry . Harry looked behind him, his heart pounding, and then he breathed, “Dumbledore!” Harry was standing in front of the golden gates .
Harry, though shielded by his stone guard, felt his hair stand on end as it passed . The spell caused no visible damage to the shield, though a deep, gonglike note reverberated from it, an oddly chilling sound . Harry felt scared to see him walking along, undefended, shieldless .
A long thin flame flew from the tip; it wrapped itself around Voldemort, shield and all . For a moment, it seemed Dumbledore had won, but then the fiery rope became a serpent . The snake reared from the floor, ready to strike .
Dumbledore bellowed, “Stay where you are, Harry!” For the first time, Harry sounded frightened . The hall was quite empty but for themselves, the sobbing Bellatrix still trapped under her statue, and the tiny baby Fawkes croaking feebly on the floor . He knew he was dead: it was pain beyond imagining, pain past endurance — And when the creature spoke, it used Harry’s mouth, so that in his ago
Harry opened his eyes, saw his glasses lying at the heel of the headless statue that had been guarding him, but which now lay flat on its back . He put them on and raised his head an inch to find Dumbledore’s crooked nose inches from his own . Harry saw the tiny gold statues of the house-elf and the goblin leading a stunned-looking Cornelius Fudge forward . “I saw him, Mr. Fudge, I swear, it was You-Know
“If you proceed downstairs into the Department of Mysteries, Cornelius,” said Dumbledore, apparently satisfied that Harry was all right, and walking forward so that the newcomers realized he was there for the first time . “I — don’t — well —” blustered Fudge, apparently beside himself with amazement .
Fudge walked away from the pool to the place where the golden wizard’s head lay on the floor . He pointed his wand at it and muttered, “Portus.” The head glowed blue and trembled noisily against the wooden floor for a few seconds . Dumbledore pulled a watch with twelve hands from his pocket and glanced at it .
The Lost Prophecy Harry’s feet hit solid ground again; his knees buckled a little and the golden wizard’s head fell with a resounding clunk to the floor . The portraits of the headmasters and headmistresses were snoozing in their frames, heads lolling back in armchairs or against the edge of their pictures . It was his fault Sirius had died; it was all his fault .
Phineas Nigellus gave a long yawn as he watched Harry with shrewd, narrow eyes . He did not know that Sirius was dead, but Harry could not tell him . To say it aloud would be to make it final, absolute, irretrievable .
Harry couldn’t stand this, he could not stand being Harry anymore . The empty fireplace burst into emerald-green flame, making Harry leap away from the door . Harry tried to say “Good,” but no sound came out .
Harry felt the white-hot anger lick his insides, blazing in the terrible emptiness . “There is no shame in what you are feeling, Harry,” said Dumbledore . "No, you don’t,” said Harry, and his voice was suddenly loud and strong .
“I — DON’T — WANT — TO — BE — HUMAN!” Harry roared, and he seized one of the silver instruments from the spindle-legged table beside him . It shattered into a hundred tiny pieces against the wall . “You care so much you feel as though you will bleed to death with the pain of it,” said Harry .
Harry ran to the door, seized the doorknob again, and wrenched at it . “Let me out,” said Dumbledore . He was shaking from head to foot .
Sirius was a brave, clever, and energetic man, and such men are not usually content to sit at home in hiding while they believe others to be in danger . If I had been open with you, Harry, as I should have been, you would have known a long time ago that Voldemort might try and lure you to the Department of Mysteries . “I don’t believe it,” said Phineas brusquely .
"Harry, I owe you an explanation," said Harry apologetically . "You’ve told me this before, Professor," said Dumbledore bluntly .
"Yeah, Snape told me," Harry muttered quietly . "I believed it could not be long before Voldemort attempted to force his way into your mind, to manipulate and misdirect your thoughts," Harry said .
Voldemort's aim in possessing you, as he demonstrated tonight, would not have been my destruction. It would have been yours. He hoped, when he possessed you briefly a short while ago, that I would sacrifice you in the hope of killing him.” He sighed deeply. Harry was letting the words wash over him .
“But I didn’t,” muttered Harry. He said it aloud to try and ease the dead weight of guilt inside him . “You are not his master, he could lie to you without even needing to punish himself.” “He hasn’t been out of Grimmauld Place for years.”
“Kreacher told me last night,” said Dumbledore . “You see, when you gave Professor Snape that cryptic warning, he realized that you had a vision of Sirius trapped in the bowels of the Department of Mysteries. He, like you, attempted to contact Sirius at once,” he said .
“He was laughing?” said Harry in a hollow voice . “You see, Kreacher was not able to betray us totally. He is not Secret-Keeper for the Order, he could not give the Malfoys our whereabouts”
Kreacher injured Buckbeak the hippogriff yesterday . There seemed to be very little air in Harry’s lungs, his breathing was quick and shallow . “I am a sufficiently accomplished Legilimens myself to know when I am being lied to and I — persuaded him to tell me the full story,” said Dumbledore .
Harry was forced to do Sirius’s bidding because Sirius was the last of the family to which he was enslaved, but he felt no true loyalty to him . He was furious, ready to fly at Dumbledore, who had plainly not understood Sirius at all . “You’re not talking about him, are you? You know that Professor Snape had no choice but to pretend not to take you seriously in front of Dolores Umbridge,” said Dumbleredor
“Snape stopped giving me Occlumency lessons!” Harry snarled. “I am aware of it,” said Dumbledore . “Sirius did not hate Kreacher,” said Harry .
“You made him stay shut up in that house and he hated it,” said Dumbledore quietly . “People don’t like being locked up!” Harry said furiously . "You did it to me all last summer —” Harry closed his eyes .
I knew not whether it would be ten, twenty, or fifty years before he returned . I knew too where Voldemort was weak, and so I made my decision . You would be protected by an ancient magic of which he knows . "She doesn’t give a damn — but she took you," said Harry at once .
You need return there only once a year, but as long as you can still call it home, there he cannot hurt you . Your aunt knows that allowing you houseroom may well have kept you alive for the past fifteen years . “You sent that Howler. You told her to remember — it was your voice,” said Harry .
You rose magnificently to the challenge that faced you . You fought a man’s fight. You did more. You delayed his return to full power and strength . “I was ... prouder of you than I can say,” said Dumbledore .
"I cared about you too much," said Dumbledore . "I defy anyone who has watched you as I have — and I have watched you more closely than you can have imagined," he said . I never dreamed that I would have such a person on my hands .
Harry waited, but Dumbledore did not speak . Now, tonight, I know you have long been ready for the knowledge I have kept from you for so long . I have watched you struggling under more burdens than any student who has ever passed through this school .
Dumbledore's office was bathed in a glass case in which the sword of Godric Gryffindor resided gleamed white and opaque . The fragments of the instruments Harry had thrown to the floor glistened like raindrops . “The thing that smashed was just the record of the prophecy kept by the Department of Mysteries.” “Who heard it?” asked Harry .
Dumbledore walked past Fawkes’s perch to the black cabinet . He bent down, slid back a catch, and took from inside it the shallow stone basin . From it, he withdrew silvery, gossamer-fine strands of thought clinging to the wand . Then, with a sigh, his thoughts swirl and drift inside the pensieve .
Harry felt as though something was closing in upon him . “It means — me?” Dumbledore surveyed him for a moment through his glasses . "The odd thing is, Harry,” he said softly, “that it may not have meant you at all. The official record was relabeled after Voldemort’s attack on you as a child,” said Dumblere .
Harry chose you, not Neville. He gave you the scar that has proved both blessing and curse . He chose the boy he thought most likely to be a danger to him, said Harry . “Why did he do it, then?” said Harry, who felt numb and cold .
Voldemort never knew that there might be danger in attacking you . He did not know that you would have ‘power the Dark Lord knows not’ . “But I don’t!” said Harry in a strangled voice .
Harry looked up at him and saw a tear trickling down Dumbledore’s face into his long silver beard . He-Who-Must-Not-Be Named has returned to this country and is active once more . It is with almost equal regret that we report the mass revolt of the dementors of Azkaban . The Ministry is currently publishing guides to elementary home and personal defense .
He-Who-Must-Not-Be-Named and a select band of followers gained entry to the Ministry of Magic itself on Thursday evening . Albus Dumbledore, newly reinstated headmaster of Hogwarts School of Witchcraft and Wizardry, was unavailable for comment last night . The Boy Who Lived — “There you are, Harry, I knew they’d drag you into it somehow,” said Hermione .
Madam Pomfrey said thoughts could leave deeper scarring than anything else . Hermione was having to take ten different types of potion every day . The curse Dolohov had used on her, though less effective than it would have been .
Hermione seemed to struggle with herself for a moment, then said, “That sounds lovely.” Ginny caught Harry’s eye and looked away quickly, grinning . “Well, Flitwick’s got rid of Fred and George’s swamp,” said Ginnione .
Dumbledore had strode alone into the forest to rescue Professor Umbridge from the centaurs . Her usually neat mousy hair was very untidy and there were bits of twig and leaf in it, but otherwise she seemed to be quite unscathed . “Madam Pomfrey says she’s just in shock,” whispered Hermione .
Harry had not told Ron, Hermione, or anyone else what the prophecy had contained . He was not ready to see their expressions when he told them that he must be either murderer or victim, there was no other way . “It is a pity it broke,” said Ron quietly, shaking her head . The castle seemed very quiet even for a Sunday .
Harry stopped dead when Malfoy, Crabbe, and Goyle emerged from a door on the right that Harry knew led down to the Slytherin common room . Harry looked back at Harry and said in a low voice, “You’re dead, Potter.” Harry looked angrier than Harry had ever seen him . “Well, I’m terrified now,” said Harry sarcastically .
“You think you’re such a big man, Potter,” said Malfoy . “You wait. I’ll have you. You can’t land my father in prison —” said Harry. “Dad and the others’ll be out in no time.” “Yeah, I expect they will,” said Harry .
Professor McGonagall thrusting her carpetbag into Crabbe’s chest and her cloak into Goyle’s, “take these up to my office for me.” They turned and stumped away up the marble staircase . “Oh — well — I suppose,” snapped Snape, though Harry knew he had heard perfectly well . A few rubies retreated into the bottom bulb of Gryffindor’s hourglass .
Students sunbathing, reading the Sunday Prophet, and eating sweets looked up at him as he passed . Harry had no idea how much they knew of what had happened three days ago . He had so far avoided being questioned and preferred it that way .
Harry would normally have tried to persuade Hagrid out of this idea at once . The prospect of a second giant taking up residence in the forest was positively alarming . “Tha’s gotta be better, hasn’ it?” said Hagrid softly and unexpectedly .
Harry crossed to the door as fast as he could and pulled it open . He closed his eyes for a few moments, wishing they would all vanish . Now, however ... He walked a short way around the lake, sat down on its bank, sheltered from the gaze of passersby behind a tangle of shrubs, and stared out over the gleaming water, thinking .
Professor Umbridge left Hogwarts the day before the end of term . Professor McGonagall sank back into her chair at the staff table after a few feeble remonstrances .
Harry pulled some crumpled robes out of the bottom of his trunk to make way for folded ones . He noticed a badly wrapped package lying in a corner of it . Harry sank down onto his bed and unwrapped the package . It looked old; it was certainly dirty .
He looked back at the mirror, raised it in front of his face with trembling hands, and said, loudly and clearly, “Sirius.” His breath misted the surface of the glass . He held the mirror even closer, excitement flooding through him . The frustrated face looking back out of the mirror was still, definitely, his own .
The ghost stuck its head back out of the wall, revealing the extravagantly plumed hat and dangerously wobbling head of Sir Nicholas de Mimsy-Porpington . The ghost stole over Nearly Headless Nick’s face as he inserted a finger in the stiff ruff at his neck and tugged it a little straighter, apparently to give himself thinking time . He desisted only when his partially severed neck seemed about to give way completely .
“You died, but I’m talking to you,” Harry urged him . “People can come back, right? As ghosts. They don’t have to disappear completely. Well?” he said impatiently, when Harry continued to say nothing .
“What d’you mean, ‘gone on’?” said Harry exasperatedly . “You’re dead, aren’t you?” said Nick . He chose to remain behind. “I chose my feeble imitation of life instead” said Harry .
“How come you’re not at the feast?” Harry asked . “Well, I really do need them back, so I’ve been putting up signs.” She gestured toward the notice board . It was a few moments before he realized that he was feeling sorry for Sirius .
“I’m sorry,” Harry mumbled. “Yes, it was rather horrible,” said Luna . “I still feel very sad about it sometimes. But I’ve still got Dad. And anyway, it’s not as though I’ll never see Mum again, is it?” said Harry uncertainly .
Malfoy, Crabbe, and Goyle attempted to ambush Harry halfway down the train . The attack might have succeeded had it not been for the fact that they unwittingly chose to stage the attack right outside a compartment full of D.A. members . By the time Ernie Macmillan, Hannah Abbott, Susan Bones, Justin Finch-Fletchley, Anthony Goldstein, and Terry Boot had finished using a wide variety of the hexes and jinx
Harry and Ron were playing wizard chess while Hermione read out snippets from the Prophet . It was now full of articles about how to repel dementors, attempts by the Ministry to track down Death Eaters, and hysterical letters claiming that the writer had seen Lord Voldemort walking past their house that very morning . “Hey, Harry,” said Ron, nodding toward the glass window onto the corridor .
Ron casts Harry an oddly furtive look as he said it . Crookshanks went plunging after the pieces and Hedwig and Pigwidgeon hooted angrily from overhead .
There was Mad-Eye Moody, looking quite sinister with his bowler hat pulled low over his magical eye as he would have done without it . Next to Tonks was Lupin, his face pale, his hair graying, a long and threadbare overcoat covering a shabby jumper and trousers . The twins were both wearing brand-new jackets in some lurid green, scaly material .
Harry leaned an inch or so to the left to see where Mad-Eye was pointing . He and Mr. Weasley took the lead across the station toward the place where the Dursleys stood . Hermione disengaged herself gently from her mother to join the group .
Uncle Vernon swelled ominously . His sense of outrage seemed to outweigh even his fear of oddballs . Uncle Vernon leapt backward in horror and collided painfully with a luggage trolley .
Uncle Vernon, Aunt Petunia, and Dudley hurrying along in his wake . “Bye, then, Potter,” said Moody, grasping Harry’s shoulder for a moment with a gnarled hand .
St. Mungo’s Hospital for Magical Maladies and Injuries Christmas on the Closed Ward Occlumency The Beetle at Bay Seen and Unforeseen The Centaur and The Sneak Snape’s Worst Memory Career Advice Grawp O.W.L.S Out of the Fire Fight and Flight The Department of Mysteries Beyond the Veil The Only One He Ever Feared The Lost Prophecy The Second War Begins .
