Owl Post Harry Potter was a highly unusual boy in many ways . For one thing, he hated the summer holidays more than any other time of year . He really wanted to do his homework but was forced to do it in secret, in the dead of night . And he also happened to be a wizard .
Harry's dead parents, who had been a witch and wizard themselves, were never mentioned under the Dursleys’ roof . For years, Aunt Petunia and Uncle Vernon had hoped that if they kept Harry as downtrodden as possible, they would be able to squash the magic out of him . The most they could do, however, was to lock away Harry’s spellbooks, wand, cauldron, and broomstick at the start of the summer break .
Ron Weasley was one of Harry’s best friends at Hogwarts . He knew a lot of things Harry didn’t, but had never used a telephone before . Ron was yelling so loud that Uncle Vernon jumped and held the receiver a foot away from his ear, staring at it with an expression of mingled fury and alarm .
Harry suspected that Ron had warned Hermione not to call . Harry had had no word from any of his wizarding friends for five long weeks . Uncle Vernon had given in because of the racket Hedwig made if she was locked in her cage all the time . It must be very late, Harry thought. His eyes were itching with tiredness .
Harry had grown a few inches over the last year . His jet-black hair was just as it always had been — stubbornly untidy . It was not, as the Dursleys had pretended for ten years, a souvenir of the car crash that had killed Harry’s parents .
Harry recognized the unconscious owl at once — his name was Errol, and he belonged to the Weasley family . Errol dashed to the bed, untied the cords around Errol’s legs, took off the parcel, and then carried Errol to Hedwig’s cage . When Harry relieved this owle, it ruffled its feathers importantly, stretched its wings, and took off through the window into the night .
Harry grabbed Errol’s package, ripped off the brown paper, and discovered a present wrapped in gold . The clipping had clearly come out of the Daily Prophet because the people in the black-and-white picture were moving . Arthur Weasley, Head of the Misuse of Muggle Artifacts Office at the Ministry of Magic, has won the annual Daily Prophet Grand Prize Galleon Draw .
Harry remembered only too well the occasion when Ron’s old wand had snapped . It had happened when the car the two of them had been flying to Hogwarts had crashed into a tree on the school grounds . He glanced back at the photograph and looked particularly smug .
Bill says it’s rubbish sold for wizard tourists and isn’t reliable, because it kept lighting up at dinner last night . Bye — Harry put the Pocket Sneakoscope on his bedside table, where it stood quite still, balanced on its point, reflecting the luminous hands of his clock . There was a wrapped present, a card, and a letter, this time from Hermione .
Harry ripped back the paper and saw a sleek black leather case with silver words stamped across it . There was a large jar of Fleetwood’s High-Finish Handle Polish, a pair of gleaming silver Tail-Twig Clippers . The thing that Harry missed most about Hogwarts was Quidditch, the most popular sport in the magical world .
Harry froze. He knew that Hagrid would never send him anything dangerous on purpose . He had been known to befriend giant spiders, buy vicious, three-headed dogs from men in pubs, and sneak illegal dragon eggs into his cabin . The Monster Book shuddered angrily, but could no longer flap and snap .
The Hogwarts Express will leave from King’s Cross station, platform nine and three-quarters, at eleven o’clock . Third years are permitted to visit the village of Hogsmeade on certain weekends . Please give the enclosed permission form to your parent or guardian to sign .
Harry sat down between Dudley and Uncle Vernon, a large, beefy man with very little neck and a lot of mustache . He looked up at the reporter on the television, who was halfway through a report on an escaped convict . “No need to tell us he’s no good,” snorted Uncle Vernon .
Harry knew Aunt Petunia would simply love to be the one to call the hot line number . She was the nosiest woman in the world and spent most of her life spying on the boring, law-abiding neighbors . Harry, whose thoughts had been upstairs with the Broomstick Servicing Kit, was brought back to earth with an unpleasant bump .
Aunt Marge had whacked Harry around the shins with her walking stick to stop him from beating Dudley at musical statues . On her last visit, Harry had accidentally trodden on the tail of her favorite dog . Uncle Vernon pointed a fat finger threateningly at Harry . "You’ll keep a civil tongue in your head when she’s talking to me," Uncle Vernon said .
Harry sat there, white-faced and furious, staring at Uncle Vernon, hardly able to believe it . Uncle Vernon clapped Dudley on his porky shoulder, and he left the kitchen . "I want to ask you something," said Harry coldly .
Uncle Vernon stopped, his fist still raised, his face an ugly puce . Harry could tell Uncle Vernon was thinking it over, even if his teeth were bared and a vein was throbbing in his temple . If he was going to act like a real Muggle, would better start now .
Errol and Hedwig soared out of the window and out of sight . Harry, now feeling thoroughly miserable, put the empty cage away inside the wardrobe . Aunt Petunia snapped as he reached the hall . The untidier he looked, the happier she would be .
Aunt Marge thrust the suitcase into Harry’s stomach, knocking the wind out of him . Uncle Vernon now came in, smiling jovially as he shut the door . Harry saw Aunt Petunia wince slightly as specks of tea and drool flecked her clean floor .
Harry was bursting to say that he’d rather live in an orphanage than with the Dursleys . The thought of the Hogsmeade form stopped him . Uncle Vernon nodded curtly behind Aunt Marge’s back .
Uncle Vernon and Aunt Petunia usually encouraged Harry to stay out of their way . Harry tried to concentrate on his food, but his hands shook and his face was starting to burn with anger . Aunt Marge reached for her glass of wine .
Aunt Petunia and Uncle Vernon were both looking at Harry suspiciously . Outside in the hall, he leaned against the wall, breathing deeply . It had been a long time since he’d lost control and made something explode .
Aunt Marge was sipping coffee with her little finger sticking out . Harry really wanted to disappear into his bedroom, but he met Uncle Vernon’s angry little eyes . "You’ll be a proper-sized man, Dudders, like your father," she said .
Uncle Vernon and Aunt Petunia were looking extremely tense . Uncle Vernon had even looked up from his pie to gape at his parents . "He — didn’t work," said Uncle Vernon, with half a glance at Harry .
Uncle Vernon seized one of Marge’s feet and tried to pull her down again . A second later, Ripper leapt forward and sank his teeth into Uncle Vernon’s leg . The cupboard door burst magically open as he reached it . In seconds, he had heaved his trunk to the front door .
The Knight Bus Harry was several streets away before he collapsed onto a low wall in Magnolia Crescent, panting from the effort of dragging his trunk . After ten minutes alone in the dark street, a new emotion overtook him: panic. Whichever way he looked at it, he had never been in a worse fix . He had just done serious magic, which meant he was almost certainly expelled from Hogwarts .
Harry had the Invisibility Cloak he had inherited from his father . Then he could get the rest of his money out of his vault and ... begin his life as an outcast . It was a horrible prospect, but he couldn’t sit on this wall forever, or he’d find himself trying to explain to police why he was out in the dead of night with a trunkful of spellbooks and a broomstick .
Harry threw up his hands to shield his eyes against a sudden blinding light . A second later, a gigantic pair of wheels and headlights screeched to a halt exactly where Harry had just been lying . Harry wondered if he had been knocked silly by his fall .
“I didn’t do it on purpose,” said Harry, annoyed. “There was a big black thing,” said Stan . “Like a dog ... but massive ...” said Stan abruptly .
A tiny wizard in a nightcap at the rear of the bus muttered, “Not now, thanks, I’m pickling some slugs” and rolled over in his sleep . “You ’ave this one,” Stan whispered, shoving Harry’s trunk under the bed right behind the driver, who was sitting in an armchair in front of the steering wheel . There was another tremendous BANG, and the next moment Harry found himself flat on his bed, thrown backward by the
Harry was still looking out of the window, feeling increasingly nervous . The Knight Bus kept mounting the pavement, but it didn’t hit anything . Stan came back downstairs, followed by a faintly green witch wrapped in a traveling cloak .
Sirius Black, possibly the most infamous prisoner ever to be held in Azkaban fortress, is still eluding capture, the Ministry of Magic confirmed today . "We are doing all we can to recapture Black," said the Minister of Magic, Cornelius Fudge . Fudge has been criticized by some members of the International Federation of Warlocks for informing the Muggle Prime Minister of the crisis .
“You outta your tree?” yelped Stan . “Sorry, I — I forgot —” “Forgot!” said Stan apologetically. “Yeah, that’s right. Very close to You-Know-’Oo,” they say .
“I’d blow meself up before I set foot in that place,” said Ern . “They ’ad a job coverin’ it up, din’ they, Ern?” Stan said. “An’ now ’e’s out,” said Stan .
Harry, Harry, had broken wizard law just like Sirius Black . Hagrid, the Hogwarts gamekeeper, had spent two months there only last year . The Knight Bus rolled through the darkness, scattering bushes and wastebaskets . Harry lay, restless and miserable, on his feather bed .
Harry looked up at the owner of the hand on his shoulder and felt a bucketful of ice cascade into his stomach . Stan leapt onto the pavement beside them . “Ern! Ern! Guess ’oo Neville is, Ern!” Stan shouted gleefully .
Stan and Ern beckoned Harry toward the passage that led from the bar . Tom clicked his fingers, a fire burst into life in the grate . Harry sat down, feeling goose bumps rising up his arms despite the glow of the fire .
Two members of the Accidental Magic Reversal Squad were dispatched to Privet Drive a few hours ago . Miss Dursley has been punctured and her memory has been modified . “Well, I won’t deny that they are extremely angry, Harry, but they are prepared to take you back next summer,” said Fudge .
Fudge strode out of the parlor and Harry stared after him . There was something extremely odd going on . The Ministry of Magic said he’d be expelled from Hogwarts if there was any more magic there .
“Don’t want to lose you again, do we?” said Fudge with a hearty laugh . “Well, I’ll be off, plenty to do, you know....” Fudge’s finger slipped on the silver fastenings of his cloak .
Harry followed Tom up a handsome wooden staircase to a door with a brass number eleven on it . Inside was a very comfortable-looking bed, some highly polished oak furniture, a cheerfully crackling fire and, perched on top of the wardrobe . The snowy owl clicked her beak and fluttered down onto Harry’s arm . Harry sat on his bed for a long time, absentmindedly stroking Hedwig .
Harry ate breakfast each morning in the Leaky Cauldron, where he liked watching the other guests: funny little witches from the country, up for a day’s shopping; wild-looking warlocks; raucous dwarfs; and once, what looked suspiciously like a hag . After breakfast Harry would go out into the backyard, take out his wand, tap the third brick from the left above the trash bin .
Harry was sorely tempted by the perfect, moving model of the galaxy in a large glass ball, which would have meant he never had to take another Astronomy lesson . But the thing that tested Harry’s resolution most appeared in his favorite shop, Quality Quidditch Supplies, a week after he’d arrived at the Leaky Cauldron . “It’s the fastest broom in the world, isn’t it, Dad?” squeaked a boy younger than Harry
Each individually selected birch twig in the broomtail has been honed to aerodynamic perfection . The Firebolt has an acceleration of 150 miles an hour in ten seconds and incorporates an unbreakable Braking Charm .
Harry pulled his booklist out of his pocket and consulted it for the first time . The Monster Book of Monsters was listed as the required book for Care of Magical Creatures . He felt relieved; he had been wondering whether Hagrid wanted help with some terrifying new pet .
The manager pressed Unfogging the Future into Harry’s hands . “Er — I need Intermediate Transfiguration and The Standard Book of Spells, Grade Three.” He emerged from Flourish and Blotts ten minutes later with his new books under his arms .
Harry met Seamus Finnigan and Dean Thomas, his fellow Gryffindors, in Quality Quidditch Supplies . He ran into Neville Longbottom, a round-faced, forgetful boy, outside Flourish and Blotts . Neville appeared to have mislaid his booklist and was told off by his very formidable-looking grandmother .
“I didn’t mean to,” said Harry while Ron roared with laughter . “I’m amazed Harry wasn’t expelled,” admitted Harry. “Forget expelled, I thought I was going to be arrested.” “Probably ’cause it’s you, isn’t it?” shrugged Ron .
“I’m taking more new subjects than you, aren’t I?” said Hermione . “You’re Muggle-born! Your mum and dad are Muggles!” asked Harry .
Harry, Ron, and Hermione waited, examining the cages . A gigantic tortoise with a jewel-encrusted shell was glittering near the window . Ron lifted Scabbers out of his pocket and placed him next to the cage of his fellow rats .
“He’s been through the mill, this one,” said Ron defensively . “An ordinary common or garden rat like this can’t be expected to live longer than three years or so,” said the witch . It took nearly ten minutes to catch Scabbers, who had taken refuge under a wastepaper bin outside Quality Quidditch Supplies.
The cat’s ginger fur was thick and fluffy, but it was definitely a bit bowlegged . Now that Scabbers was out of sight, however, the cat was purring contentedly in Hermione’s arms . Poor Crookshanks, that witch said he’d been there for ages; no one wanted him .
Fred and George were about to start their fifth year at Hogwarts . Ginny, who had always been very taken with Harry, seemed even more heartily embarrassed than usual when she saw him . Percy held out his hand solemnly as though he and Harry had never met .
“Mum!” said Fred as though he’d only just spotted her and seizing her hand too . “Hello, Harry, dear. I suppose you’ve heard our exciting news?” she pointed to the brand-new badge on Percy’s chest .
Mr. Weasley’s ears had gone red, just like Ron’s did when he was under pressure . “You’d better go and pack properly, Ron, because we won’t have much time in the morning,” Harry said . Ron and Percy were next door to Harry .
Harry was halfway along the passage to the bar, which was now very dark, when he heard another pair of angry voices coming from the parlor . He hesitated, not wanting them to know he’d heard them arguing, when the sound of his own name made him stop . “... makes no sense not to tell him,” Mr. Weasley was saying heatedly . "I don’t want to make him miserable, I want to put him on his guard!” retorted Mr.
Sirius Black's mad, and maybe he is, but he was clever enough to escape from Azkaban . There was a thud on wood, and Harry was sure Mr. Weasley had banged his fist on the table . The guards told Fudge that Black’s been talking in his sleep for a while now .
“Of course he knows. We had to ask him if he’s happy, if they’re there to catch Black?” Mr. Weasley said . “If they save Harry —” “— then I will never say another word against them” . Fred and George were crouching in the shadows on the landing .
Sirius Black had murdered thirteen people with one curse . But Harry happened to agree wholeheartedly with Mrs. Weasley that the safest place on earth was wherever Albus Dumbledore happened to be . No, all in all, the thing bothered Harry most was the fact that his chances of visiting Hogsmeade now looked like zero .
Harry woke Harry the next morning with his usual toothless grin and a cup of tea . Hedwig and Hermes, Percy’s screech owl, perched on top in their cages . "The sooner we get on the train, the better," Ron said . “I’ve got something to tell you,” Harry began .
Mr. Weasley marched Harry across the short stretch of pavement toward the first of two old-fashioned dark green cars . Harry got into the back of the car and was shortly joined by Hermione, Ron, and, to Ron’s disgust, Percy . The journey to King’s Cross was very uneventful compared with Harry’s trip on the Knight Bus .
Percy and Ginny strode over to a girl with long, curly hair . Harry and Ron led the way to the end of the train, past packed compartments . They loaded the trunks onto it, stowed Hedwig and Crookshanks in the luggage rack . Mrs. Weasley kissed all her children, then Hermione, and finally, Harry .
“I’m not trying to be a hero, but seriously, Sirius Black can’t be worse than Voldemort, can he?” Mr. Weasley flinched at the sound of the name but overlooked it . “Harry, I knew you were, well, made of stronger stuff than Fudge seems to think, and I’m obviously pleased that you’re not scared, but —” “Arthur, what are you doing? It’s about to go!” said Mr.
Harry, Ron, and Hermione set off down the corridor looking for an empty compartment . This had only one occupant, a man sitting fast asleep next to the window . The Hogwarts Express was usually reserved for students and they had never seen an adult there before .
Harry, Ron, and Hermione had already had two Defense Against the Dark Arts teachers . There were rumors that the job was jinxed . "He looks like one good hex would finish him off, doesn’t he? Anyway ..." He turned to Harry .
"It went haywire just as I was tying it to Errol’s leg to send it to Harry." "Were you doing anything untrustworthy at the time?" said Hermione shrewdly . "We could get it checked in Hogsmeade," said Ron .
Hermione looked around at Harry. “Won’t it be nice to get out of school for a bit and explore Hogsmeade?” Ron looked horrified. “You’re not allowed to come? But — no way — McGonagall or someone will give you permission,” Harry gave a hollow laugh .
Crookshanks leapt lightly from the basket, stretched, yawned, and sprang onto Ron’s knees . “Get out of here!” “Ron, don’t!” said Hermione angrily .
Draco Malfoy and Harry had been enemies ever since they had met on their very first train journey to Hogwarts . He played Seeker on the Slytherin Quidditch team, the same position that Harry played on the Gryffindor team . They were both wide and musclely; Crabbe was taller; Goyle had short, bristly hair .
“I’m not going to take any crap from Malfoy this year,” he said angrily . “If he makes one more crack about my family, I’m going to get hold of his head and —” Ron made a violent gesture in midair . The rain thickened as the train sped yet farther north; the windows were now a solid, shimmering gray, which gradually darkened .
The compartment door suddenly opened and someone fell painfully over Harry’s legs . There was a loud hissing and a yelp of pain; Neville had tried to sit on Crookshanks . “No idea — sit down —” came Hermione’s voice .
Harry’s eyes darted downward, and what he saw made his stomach contract . There was a hand protruding from the cloak and it was glistening, grayish, slimy-looking, and scabbed, like something dead that had decayed in water . And then the thing beneath the hood, whatever it was, drew a long, slow, rattling breath, as though it were trying to suck something more than air from its surroundings 
Ron and Hermione heaved Harry back onto his seat . Harry felt very sick; when he put up his hand to push his glasses back on, he felt cold sweat on his face . The hooded creature had vanished. “What happened? Where’s that — that thing?” Ron asked nervously .
“I thought you were having a fit or something,” said Ron . “You went sort of rigid and fell out of your seat and started twitching — and Professor Lupin stepped over you, and walked toward the dementor, and pulled out his wand,” said Hermione, in a higher voice than usual .
Harry, Ron, and Hermione followed the rest of the school along the platform . They waved at him, but had no chance to speak to him because the mass of people around them was shunting them away . The coach set off all by itself, bumping and swaying in procession .
Harry saw two more towering, hooded dementors standing guard on either side . The carriage picked up speed on the long, sloping drive up to the castle . At last, the carriage swayed to a halt, and Hermione and Ron got out . Professor Lupin had just gotten out of the next carriage .
Professor McGonagall ushered Harry and Hermione away from the chattering crowd . They accompanied her across the entrance hall, up the marble staircase, and along a corridor . It was bad enough that he’d passed out, or whatever he had done, without everyone making all this fuss.
Madam Pomfrey clucked disapprovingly, pushing back Harry’s hair and feeling his forehead . “Of course you’re not delicate!” said Harry crossly . Draco Malfoy would say if he had to go to the hospital wing was torture .
Harry and Hermione made their way back down the marble staircase to the Great Hall . It was a sea of pointed black hats; each of the long House tables was lined with students, their faces glimmering by the light of thousands of candles . The Sorting Hat shouted out the House they were best suited to .
Albus Dumbledore was described as the greatest wizard of the age . He had several feet of long silver hair and beard, half-moon spectacles, and an extremely crooked nose . As Harry looked around at the students, he felt really calm .
Professor Lupin, who has kindly consented to fill the post of Defense Against the Dark Arts teacher . There was some scattered, rather unenthusiastic applause . Harry, Ron, and Hermione stared at one another, stunned .
Hagrid was expelled from Hogwarts in his third year for a crime he had not committed . It had been Harry, Ron, and Hermione who had cleared Hagrid’s name last year . He buried his face in his napkin, and Professor McGonagall shooed them away.
Harry, Ron, and Hermione joined the Gryffindors streaming up the marble staircase . A large portrait of a fat lady asked them, “Password?” “Coming through, coming through!” Percy called from behind the crowd . Harry climbed the spiral stair with no thought in his head except how glad he was to be back .
“I wasn’t too happy myself,” said George, with a contemptuous glance at Malfoy . “You didn’t pass out, though, did you?” said Harry .
“Of course I won’t be in three classes at once?” Hermione snapped . “Oh, Ron, what’s it to you if my schedule’s a bit full?” He said eagerly . He grinned broadly at them and headed off to the staff table .
The journey through the castle was a long one . Two years at Hogwarts hadn’t taught them everything about the castle . Harry, Ron, and Hermione climbed their seventh long staircase to North Tower .
The knight seized his sword again and used it to push himself back up . The blade sank deeply into the grass and he couldn’t get it out again . He gave the sword another fruitless tug, tried and failed to mount the fat pony, gave up, and cried, “On foot then, good sirs and gentle lady! On! On!” And they spotted him running through a picture ahead .
There were no doors off this landing, but Ron nudged Harry and pointed at the ceiling, where there was a circular trapdoor with a brass plaque on it . The trapdoor suddenly opened, and a silvery ladder descended right at Harry’s feet . At least twenty small, circular tables were crammed inside it, all surrounded by chintz armchairs and fat little poufs .
Professor Trelawney moved into the firelight, and saw that she was very thin . Innumerable chains and beads hung around her spindly neck, and her arms and hands were encrusted with bangles and rings . Harry, Ron, and Hermione sat themselves around the same table .
Professor Trelawney shot suddenly at Parvati Patil, "beware a red-haired man" The second term will be devoted to reading the tea leaves. Next term we shall progress to palmistry . Unfortunately, classes will be disrupted by a nasty bout of flu .
Neville had no sooner reached the shelf of teacups when there was a tinkle of breaking china . Professor Trelawney swept over to him holding a dustpan and brush and said, “One of the blue ones, then, dear, if you wouldn’t mind ... thank you. “Right,” said Ron as they both opened their books at pages five and six .
Ron peered into Harry’s teacup, his forehead wrinkled with effort . He turned the cup again, “that looks like an animal ... yeah, if that was its head ... it looks like a hippo ... no, a sheep ...” He scanned his copy of Unfogging the Future .
Harry and Ron stared at her with a mixture of amazement and admiration . She lowered her huge eyes to Harry’s cup again and continued to turn it . “The skull ... danger in your path, my dear. ...” Everyone was staring, transfixed, at Professor Trelawney, who gave the cup a final turn, gasped, and then screamed .
Professor Trelawney surveyed Hermione with mounting dislike . “You’ll forgive me for saying so, my dear, but I perceive very little aura around you.” Seamus Finnigan was tilting his head from side to side. “When you’ve all finished deciding whether I’m going to die or not!” said Harry .
Harry turned back into herself with a faint pop, and staring around at them all . Then Hermione raised her hand, fixing Harry with her beady eyes . Seeing death omens is her favorite way of greeting a new class .
Harry felt a bit better. It was harder to feel scared of a lump of tea leaves away from the dim red light and befuddling perfume of Professor Trelawney’s classroom . Not everyone was convinced, however. “Ron, cheer up,” said Hermione, pushing a dish of stew toward him .
Hermione slammed her Arithmancy book down on the table so hard that bits of meat and carrot flew everywhere . The Grim's not an omen, it’s the cause of death! And Harry’s still with us because he’s not stupid enough to see one and think, right, well, I’d better kick the bucket then!
Harry walked beside them in silence as they went down the sloping lawns to Hagrid’s hut on the edge of the Forbidden Forest . It was only when he spotted three only-too-familiar backs ahead of them that he realized they must be having these lessons with the Slytherins . He stood in his moleskin overcoat, with Fang the boarhound at his heels, looking impatient to start .
Hagrid took Hermione’s copy and ripped off the Spellotape that bound it . The book tried to bite, but Hagrid ran a giant forefinger down its spine . “Oh, tremendously funny!” said Harry quietly .
The talons on their front legs were half a foot long and deadly looking . They had the bodies, hind legs, and tails of horses, but the front legs, wings, and heads of what seemed to be giant eagles . Harry, Ron, and Hermione approached the fence cautiously .
“Right — who wants ter go first?” Most of the class backed farther away in answer . The hippogriffs were tossing their fierce heads and flexing their powerful wings . They didn’t seem to like being tethered like this .
The hippogriff bent its scaly front knees and sank into what was an unmistakable bow . “Right — yeh can touch him! Pat his beak, go on!” said Hagrid . The class broke into applause, all except for Malfoy, Crabbe, and Goyle .
Harry had time to seize the hippogriff around the neck before he was soaring upward . Buckbeak flew him once around the paddock and then headed back to the ground . “Good work, Harry!” roared Hagrid as everyone except Malfoy, Crabbe, and Goyle cheered .
“I know it must have been, if Potter could do it. I bet you’re not dangerous at all, are you?” he said to the hippogriff. “I’m dying!” Malfoy yelled as the class panicked . “Yer not dyin’!” said Hagrid, who had gone very white .
Harry had had far worse injuries mended magically by the nurse . They were among the first to reach the Great Hall, hoping to see Hagrid, but he wasn’t there . "They wouldn’t fire him, would they?" said Hermione anxiously .
Hagrid was sitting in his shirtsleeves at his scrubbed wooden table . There was a pewter tankard almost as big as a bucket in front of him . “You haven’t been fired, Hagrid!” gasped Hermione. “Not yet,” said Hagrid miserably .
“I think you’ve had enough to drink, Hagrid,” said Hermione firmly . He grabbed Harry and Ron and pulled them into a bone-breaking hug . “Ar, maybe she’s right,” said Hagrid .
The Boggart in the Wardrobe Malfoy didn’t reappear in classes until late on Thursday morning, when the Slytherins and Gryffindors were halfway through double Potions . He swaggered into the dungeon, his right arm covered in bandages and bound up in a sling, acting, in Harry’s opinion . But Harry saw him wink at Crabbe and Goyle when Pansy had looked away .
Professor Snape seized his knife, pulled Malfoy’s roots toward him, and began to chop them roughly, so that they were all different sizes . “I’m afraid he won’t be a teacher much longer,” snarled Ron jerkily, without looking up .
Harry accidentally beheading a dead caterpillar because his hand was shaking in anger . “To try to get Hagrid fired,” said Malfoy, lowering his voice to a whisper, “partly, Potter. But there are other benefits too. Weasley, slice my caterpillars for me.” A few cauldrons away, Neville was in trouble .
Sirius Black’s been sighted,” said Seamus Finnigan . Malfoy’s eyes were shining malevolently, and they were fixed on Harry . “Of course, if it was me,” said Harry offhandedly .
Harry and Ron packed away their unused ingredients and went to wash their hands and ladles in the stone basin in the corner . “Why would I want revenge on Black? He’s making it up,” said Ron savagely . If he has managed to produce a Shrinking Solution, it will shrink to a tadpole .
Harry, Ron, and Hermione climbed the steps to the entrance hall . Harry was still thinking about what Malfoy had said, while Ron was seething about Snape . “Why didn’t you lie, Hermimione? You should’ve said Neville did it all by himself!” Harry turned too .
“You know how many subjects I’m taking,” said Hermione vaguely . "You haven’t got any of these subjects today. It’s only Defense Against the Dark Arts this afternoon.” “Oh yes,” said Ron . “I hope there’s something good for lunch,” Ron asked Harry .
Peeves wiggled his curly-toed feet and broke into song . Professor Lupin was the caretaker, a bad-tempered, failed wizard who waged a constant war against the students . He raised the wand to shoulder height, said, “Waddiwasi!” and pointed it at Peevs .
Professor Snape was sitting in a low armchair, and looked around as the class filed in . He got to his feet and strode past the class, his black robes billowing behind him . At the doorway he turned on his heel and said, "Possibly no one’s warned you, Lupin, but this class contains Neville Longbottom. I would advise you not to entrust him with anything difficult. Not unless Miss Granger is hissing instructions in his ear."
“I’ve even met one that had lodged itself in a grandfather clock,” Professor Lupin said . “It can take the shape of whatever it thinks will frighten us most.” “Couldn’t have put it better myself,” Hermione glowed .
“We will practice the charm without wands first. After me, please ... riddikulus!” said Professor Lupin . The wardrobe shook again, though not as much as Neville, who walked forward as though he were heading for the gallows .
“Right then,” said Professor Lupin . “When the boggart bursts out of this wardrobe, Neville, and sees you, it will assume the form of Professor Snape,” said Lupin. There was a great shout of laughter .
Harry felt a lurch of fear. He wasn’t ready . But he didn’t want to ask for more time; everyone else was nodding and rolling up their sleeves . "Let you have a clear field, all right? I’ll call the next person forward," Professor Lupin said .
A bandage unraveled at the mummy’s feet; it became entangled, fell face forward, and its head rolled off . “Seamus!” roared Professor Lupin. Seamus darted past Parvati. Crack! The banshee turned into a rat, which chased its tail in a circle, then — crack! — becoming a single, bloody eyeball .
Professor Lupin squealed and ran out of its way and it came to a halt at Harry’s feet . He raised his wand, ready, but — “Here!” shouted Lupin suddenly, hurrying forward . Crack! Snape was back. This time Neville charged forward looking determined .
Draco Malfoy and his gang of Slytherins had anything bad to say about Professor Lupin . “Look at the state of his robes,” Malfofoy would say in a loud whisper as Professor Lupine passed .
Harry only wished he was as happy with some of his other classes . The story of the boggart assuming Snape’s shape, and the way that Neville had dressed it in his grandmother’s clothes, had traveled through the school like wildfire . He couldn’t like Professor Trelawney even though she was treated with respect bordering on reverence by many of the class .
Oliver Wood was a burly seventeen-year-old, now in his seventh and final year at Hogwarts . There were seven people on a Quidditch team: three Chasers, whose job it was to score goals by putting the Quaffle through one of the fifty-foot-high hoops at each end of the field . The Seeker, who had the hardest job of all, was catching the Golden Snitch, a tiny, winged, walnut-sized ball 
“We’ve got the best — ruddy — team — in — the — school,” Wood said . “Stop it, Oliver, you’re embarrassing us,” said Fred and George Weasley together .
Ron and Hermione were sitting in two of the best chairs by the fireside . Harry threw himself into a chair beside Ron, his high spirits ebbing away . “Black’s not fool enough to try anything in Hogsmeade,” said Ron .
Ron pulled his bag toward him, took out parchment, ink, and quill, and started work . “You can copy mine, if you like,” said Ron, labeling his last star with a flourish . Crookshanks was still staring unblinkingly at Ron, flicking the end of his bushy tail .
Ron and Hermione grabbed Crookshanks around the middle and heaved him away . He pulled Scabbers out by the tail and threw himself onto his stomach . “He’s skin and bone! You keep that cat away from him!” said Hermimione .
Harry, who had resolved to ask Professor McGonagall after the lesson, joined the line trying to decide how he was going to argue his case . He was distracted, however, by a disturbance at the front of the line . “I’m sorry, Lavender,” said Hermione anxiously as she, Harry, and Ron went to join the group .
Hermione and Ron were looking daggers at each other . When they got into class, they seated themselves on either side of Harry . “One moment, please!” she called as the class made to leave .
Professor McGonagall looked down and began shuffling papers on her desk . "You heard what I said. No form, no visiting the village. That’s the rule," Harry said . Ron egged him on with vigorous nods .
Dean Thomas, who was good with a quill, had offered to forge Uncle Vernon’s signature on the form, but that was no good . Ron halfheartedly suggested the Invisibility Cloak, but Hermione stamped on that one, reminding Ron what Dumbledore had told them about the dementors being able to see through them .
Harry ignored him and made his way up the marble staircase . The portrait swung open and he climbed through the hole into the common room . It was full of chattering first and second years, and a few older students .
“Nothing!” snapped Filch, and he stood glaring until Harry had passed out of sight . Harry doubled back to see who had spoken and met Professor Lupin . “Why don’t you come in? I’ve just taken delivery of a grindylow for our next lesson.”
Lupin tapped the kettle with his wand and a blast of steam issued suddenly from the spout . “I’ve only got teabags, I’m afraid — but I daresay you’ve had enough of tea leaves?” Harry asked . Lupin didn’t want Lupin to think he was a coward .
Professor Dumbledore was the only person Harry had ever heard say the name aloud . “Clearly, I didn’t think it a good idea for Lord Voldemort to materialize in the staffroom. I imagined that people would panic.” “I — I remember those dementors.” He smiled slightly at the look of surprise on Harry’s face .
“I have never been much of a potion-brewer and this one is particularly complex.” Lupin picked up the goblet and sniffed it . “I’ve been feeling a bit off-color,” Lupin began .
Ron and Hermione had just turned up in the common room, pink-faced from the cold wind and looking as though they’d had the time of their lives . “What’s Hogsmeade like? Where did you go?” said Harry, picking up a packet of tiny black Pepper Imps . "We think we saw an ogre, honestly, they get all sorts at the Three Broomsticks —” said Harry .
Professor Lupin looked cheerful and as well as he ever did . Harry moved his eyes along the table, to the place where Snape sat . It was such a pleasant evening that Harry’s good mood couldn’t even be spoiled by Malfoy .
A moment later, Professor Dumbledore was there, sweeping toward the portrait . The Fat Lady had vanished from her portrait, which had been slashed so viciously that strips of canvas littered the floor . It was Peeves the Poltergeist, bobbing over the crowd and looking delighted .
Grim Defeat Professor Dumbledore sent all the Gryffindors back to the Great Hall . Professors McGonagall and Flitwick closed all doors into the hall . “I’m afraid that, for your own safety, you will have to spend the night here,” he said .
“I reckon he’s lost track of time, being on the run,” said Ron . “Maybe he knows how to Apparate,” said a Hufflepuff fifth year .
Professor Dumbledore reappears in the hall to check that everything was quiet . Harry watched him looking around for Percy, who had been prowling between the sleeping bags, telling people off for talking . “There’s no point moving them all now.” “And the Fat Lady, sir?” asked Snape .
Harry opened his eyes a fraction and squinted up to where they stood . He could see Percy’s face, rapt with attention, and Snape’s profile, which looked angry . “I do, Severus,” said Dumbledore, and there was something like warning in his voice .
Sirius Black's ripped canvas had been taken off the wall and replaced with the portrait of Sir Cadogan and his fat gray pony . Nobody was very happy about this . Professor McGonagall summoned Harry into her office with such a somber expression on her face Harry thought someone must have died .
The weather worsened steadily as the first Quidditch match drew nearer . The Gryffindor team was training harder than ever under the eye of Madam Hooch . “We’re not playing Slytherin!” said Oliver Wood .
“I know that, but we can’t prove it,” said Wood, frowning at this lighthearted behavior . “He’s that tall, good-looking one, isn’t he?” said Angelina .
Oliver Wood kept hurrying up to him between classes and giving him tips . The third time this happened, Harry suddenly realized he was ten minutes late for Defense Against the Dark Arts . But it wasn’t Professor Lupin who looked up at him from the teacher’s desk; it was Snape .
"You are easily satisfied. Lupin is hardly overtaxing you," said Dean Thomas boldly . Harry watched him flick through the textbook, to the very back chapter, which he must know they hadn’t covered . "We’re not supposed to do werewolves yet, we’re due to start hinkypunks," said Snape .
Hermione went very red, put down her hand, and stared at the floor with her eyes full of tears . It was a mark of how much the class loathed Snape that they were all glaring at him . The class knew instantly he’d gone too far . No one made a sound throughout the rest of the lesson .
Harry and Hermione left the room with the rest of the class . They waited until they were well out of earshot, then burst into a furious tirade about Snape . “Why’s he got it in for Lupin? D’you think this is all because of the boggart?” Harry said pensively .
Harry fumbled for his alarm clock and looked at it . It was very difficult, now that he was awake, to ignore the sounds of the thunder rumbling overhead, the pounding of the wind against the castle walls, and the distant creaking of the trees in the Forbidden Forest . In a few hours he would be out on the Quidditch field, battling through that gale .
Harry saw Malfoy, Crabbe, and Goyle laughing and pointing at him . The Hufflepuffs were approaching from the opposite side of the field . Madam Hooch put her whistle to her lips and gave it a blast that sounded shrill and distant .
Twice Harry came close to being unseated by a Bludger; his vision was so clouded by the rain on his glasses he hadn’t seen them coming . It was getting harder and harder to hold his broom straight, as though night had decided to come early . The whole team splashed down into the mud .
Wood looked as though he could have kissed her as she disappeared into the crowd . “Okay, team, let’s go for it!” Hermione’s spell had done the trick . Full of fresh determination, Harry urged his broom through the turbulent air . There was another clap of thunder, followed immediately by forked lightning . This was getting more and more dangerous .
The wind, though as strong as ever, was forgetting to roar . It was as though someone had turned off the sound, as though Harry had gone suddenly deaf . And then a horribly familiar wave of cold swept over him, inside him .
Ron and Hermione were also there, looking as though they’d just climbed out of a swimming pool . “What happened?” Fred said, sitting up so suddenly they all gasped . The horrible truth sank into Harry like a stone .
“We lost by a hundred points, right? So if Hufflepuff loses to Ravenclaw and we beat Slytherin ...” “It all depends on the points — a margin of a thousand either way —” Harry lay there, not saying a word . After ten minutes or so, Madam Pomfrey came over to tell the team to leave him in peace . “Don’t beat yourself up, Harry, you’re still the best Seeker we’
Ron and Hermione looked at Harry so anxiously that he quickly cast around for something matter-of-fact to say . “Well ... when you fell off, it got blown away,” said Harry hesitantly . "Well, you know the Whomping Willow,” said Ron, dreading the answer .
Harry had a stream of visitors, all intent on cheering him up . The Gryffindor team visited again on Sunday morning, this time accompanied by Wood . Ron and Hermione left Harry’s bedside only at night . But nothing anyone said or did could make Harry feel any better .
Harry dozed fitfully, sinking into dreams full of clammy, rotted hands and petrified pleading, jerking awake to dwell again on his mother’s voice . It was a relief to return to the noise and bustle of Gryffindor on Monday, where he was forced to think about other things . Malfoy spent much of their next Potions class doing dementor imitations across the dungeon; Ron finally cracked and flung a large
Professor Lupin had brought along a glass box containing a hinkypunk . He looked as though he were made of wisps of smoke, rather frail and harmless-looking . Harry doubled back to his desk and started to pile books into his briefcase .
Professor Lupin looked at him quickly . He hesitated, and then the question he had to ask burst from him . The dementors affect you worse than the others because there are horrors in your past .
“When they get near me —” Lupin stared at Lupin’s desk, his throat tight . There was a moment’s silence, then — “Why did they have to come to the match?” said Harry bitterly . “They’re getting hungry,” said Lupin coolly, shutting his briefcase with a snap .
Lupin looked into Harry’s determined face, hesitated, then said, “Well ... all right. I’ll try and help. But it’ll have to wait until next term, I’m afraid. I chose a very inconvenient time to fall ill.” The promise of anti-dementor lessons from Lupin, the thought that he might never have to hear his mother’s death again, and the fact that Ravenclaw flattened Hufflepuff .
Harry had been riding one of the school brooms at team practice, an ancient Shooting Star, which was very slow and jerky . On the Saturday morning of the Hogsmeade trip, Harry bid good-bye to Ron and Hermione, who were wrapped in cloaks and scarves . Fred and George peering out at him from behind a statue of a humpbacked, one-eyed witch .
“Anyway, we know it by heart,” said Fred, closing his eyes with a grimace as though Harry had mortally offended him . “Well ... when we were in our first year, Harry — young, carefree, and innocent —” Harry snorted .
A labeled dot in the top left corner showed Professor Dumbledore was pacing his study . The caretaker’s cat, Mrs. Norris, was prowling the second floor . And many of them seemed to lead — “Right into Hogsmeade,” said Fred .
Harry traced the secret passage to Honeydukes with his finger . Fred and George had been using it for years without anything horrible happening .
Harry rolled up the map, stuffed it inside his robes, and hurried to the door of the classroom . He pulled out the map again and saw, to his astonishment, that a new ink figure had appeared upon it, labeled Harry Potter . This figure was standing exactly where the real Harry was standing, about halfway down the third-floor corridor . The tiniest speech bubble had appeared next to his figure .
It took ages, but Harry had the thought of Honeydukes to sustain him . After what felt like an hour, the passage began to rise . He sped up, his face hot, his feet very cold . Ten minutes later, he came to the foot of some worn stone steps, which rose out of sight above him. Then, without warning, his head hit something hard .
There were shelves upon shelves of the most succulent-looking sweets imaginable . Creamy chunks of nougat, shimmering pink squares of coconut ice, fat, honey-colored toffees . There was a large barrel of Every Flavor Beans, and another of Fizzing Whizbees, the levitating sherbert balls that Ron had mentioned .
Fred and George reckon Filch already knows about four of them . One of them’s caved in, so no one can get through it . Customers are reminded that until further notice, dementors will be patrolling the streets .
“Look, Harry still shouldn’t be coming into Hogsmeade. He’d have a job spotting Harry in this,” said Ron . “Seen the Fizzing Whizbees, Harry?” said Ron, grabbing him and leading him over to their barrel .
Harry shivered; unlike the other two, he didn’t have his cloak . They headed up the street, heads bowed against the wind . Professors McGonagall and Flitwick had just entered the pub with a flurry of snowflakes .
Ron and Hermione had both placed hands on the top of Harry’s head and forced him off his stool and under the table . Somewhere above him, Harry whispered, “Mobiliarbus!” The Christmas tree beside their table rose a few inches off the ground, drifted sideways, and landed with a soft thump right in front of them . Next he saw another pair of feet, wearing sparkly turquoise high heels .
Madam Rosmerta said in a quiet voice, “What else, m’dear, but Sirius Black? I daresay you heard what happened up at the school at Halloween?” Professor McGonagall exasperatedly .
Sirius Black was the last I’d have thought ... I mean, I remember him when he was a boy at Hogwarts . "You don’t know the half of it, Rosmerta," said Fudge gruffly . “I can’t believe that. What could possibly be worse?” said Professor McGonagall .
Black was best man when James married Lily. Then they named him godfather to Harry . “Because Black turned out to be in league with You-Know-Who?” whispered Madam Rosmerta. “Worse even than that, m’dear....” Fudge dropped his voice and proceeded in a sort of low rumble.
“He suspected Black?” gasped Madam Rosmerta . “He did indeed. Black was tired of his double-agent role, he was ready to declare his support openly for You-Know-Who,” Professor McGonagall said .
“I musta bin the last ter see him before he killed all them people! It was me what rescued Harry from Lily an’ James’s house after they was killed! Jus’ got him outta the ruins, poor little thing, with a great slash across his forehead, an’ his parents dead ... an’ Sirius Black turns up, on that flyin’ motorbike he used ter ride .
Madam Rosmerta said with some satisfaction, “But he didn’t manage to disappear, did he? The Ministry of Magic caught up with him next day!” Maddened by grief, no doubt, knowing that Black had been the Potters’ Secret-Keeper, he went after Black . “I was often rather sharp with him. You can imagine how I — how I regret that now.”
“There, now, Minerva,” said Fudge thickly . “I tell yeh, if I’d got ter Black before little Pettigrew did, I wouldn’t’ve messed around with wands ... he was always hopeless at dueling ... should have left it to the Ministry,” said Hagrid .
Madam Rosmerta met Black on my last inspection of Azkaban . You know, most of the prisoners in there sit muttering to themselves in the dark; there’s no sense in them ... but I was shocked at how normal Black seemed . It was unnerving. You’d have thought he was merely bored .
Harry sat down on his bed, drew the hangings around him and found what he was looking for . The Firebolt Harry didn’t have a very clear idea of how he had managed to get back into the Honeydukes cellar, through the tunnel, and into the castle once more . Ron’s and Hermione’s faces appeared under the table, lost for words .
Harry had never given him a thought before . If he hadn’t known it was the same person, he would never have guessed it was Black . But the dementors don’t affect him, Harry thought, staring into the handsome, laughing face .
Harry had awoken to find the dormitory deserted, dressed, and gone down the spiral staircase to a common room completely empty except for Ron and Hermione . Harry slumped into a chair next to the fire . Crookshanks was spread out in front of the fire like a large ginger rug . “You must be really upset about what we heard yesterday. But the thing is, you mustn’t go doing anything stupid.” said Harry .
Ron and Hermione shook their heads, looking apprehensive . “You know what I see and hear every time a dementor gets too near me?” Ron said furiously . "You’re going to take Malfoy’s advice instead of ours?" said Ron .
“He was right in Voldemort’s inner circle —” “Say You-Know-Who, will you?” interjected Ron angrily . “Harry, please,” said Hermione, her eyes now shining with tears .
The Forbidden Forest looked as though it had been enchanted . Ron knocked, but there was no answer . “He’s not out, is he?” said Hermione, who was shivering under her cloak .
“Hagrid, what is it?” said Hermione, aghast . He shoved the letter toward Harry, who picked it up and read aloud . “Well, that’s okay then, Hagrid!” said Ron, clapping Hagrid on the shoulder .
Harry, Ron, and Hermione looked at each other . They had never seen eye to eye with Hagrid about what he called “interesting creatures” and other people called “terrifying monsters” On the other hand, there didn’t seem to be any particular harm in Buckbeak . “Won’t make no diff’rence!” sobbed Hagrid .
Harry and Hermione looked at Ron to help them . “Er — shall I make a cup of tea?” said Ron. “I can’ afford to go ter pieces. Gotta pull meself together.” Fang came timidly out from under the table .
“Yeh’ve no idea,” said Hagrid quietly . “Thought o’ jus’ letting Buckbeak go ... tryin’ ter make him fly away ... but how d’yeh explain ter a hippogriff it’s gotta go inter hidin’? “I don’t want ter go back ter Azkaban.”
Ron and Hermione went to Hagrid's library the next day and returned to the empty common room laden with books that might help prepare a defense for Buckbeak . The three of them sat in front of the roaring fire, slowly turning the pages of dusty volumes about famous cases of marauding beasts, speaking occasionally when they ran across something relevant . Thick streamers of holly and mistletoe were strung along the corridors, mysterious lights shone from inside
Harry ripped the parcel open and gasped as a magnificent, gleaming broomstick rolled out onto his bedspread . The Firebolt hung in midair, unsupported, at exactly the right height for him to mount it . “Look and see if there’s a card,” said Harry .
Harry muttered, running a hand along the Firebolt, while Ron sank onto Harry’s bed, laughing his head off at the thought of Malfoy . “I know who it could’ve been — Lupin!” said Harry .
Hermione didn’t appear excited or intrigued by the news . On contrary, her face fell, and she bit her lip . “I don’t know, Harry! Who sent you that?” said Harry .
Ron seized Scabbers by the tail and aimed a misjudged kick at Crookshanks . The Pocket Sneakoscope had become dislodged from Uncle Vernon’s old socks . “You’d better take that cat out of here, Hermione,” said Ron furiously .
Hermione had shut Crookshanks in her dormitory, but was furious with Ron . Harry gave up trying to make them talk to each other and devoted himself to examining the Firebolt . Professors Dumbledore, McGonagall, Snape, Sprout, and Flitwick were there .
“Crackers!” said Dumbledore enthusiastically, offering the end of a large silver noisemaker to Snape, who took it reluctantly and tugged . It was Professor Trelawney, gliding toward them as though on wheels . She had put on a green sequined dress in honor of the occasion, making her look more than ever like a glittering, oversized dragonfly .
"If I join the table, we shall be thirteen!" Professor Trelawney hesitated, then lowered herself into the empty chair . "I’m afraid the poor fellow is ill again," said Professor Lupin, her eyebrows raised .
Professor Trelawney looked highly affronted . Harry and Ron got up first from the table and she shrieked loudly . “I doubt it will make much difference,” said Professor McGonagall .
Harry and Ron looked around at Hermione, both holding the Firebolt . They could see her forehead reddening over the top of her book, which was upside down . “Well, I’m afraid I will have to take this, Potter.” “W — what?” said Professor McGonagall blankly .
Professor McGonagall turned on her heel and carried the Firebolt out of the portrait hole . Harry stood staring after her, the tin of High-Finish Polish still clutched in his hands . The Patronus Harry knew that Hermione had meant well, but that didn’t stop him from being angry with her .
Harry and Ron supposed she had taken refuge in the library and didn’t try to persuade her to come back . All in all, they were glad when the rest of the school returned shortly after New Year . Wood sought Harry out on the night before term started . “I’ve been doing some thinking over Christmas, Harry,” said Harry .
“I’ll go and talk to her, Harry,” he promised . “She wants Gryffindor to win as much as we do.... I’ll make her see reason. A Firebolt ... a real Firebolter, on our team ... She wants Gryerdor” . The last thing anyone felt like doing was spending two hours on the grounds on a raw January morning .
“What d’you reckon’s the matter with him?” said Ron irritably . It was Hermione, who had been sitting at feet of a suit of armor, repacking her bag . “Yes, you were,” said Ron, heaving her bag back over her shoulder .
Professor Lupin had taken out his own wand, and indicated that Harry should do the same . “What does a Patronus look like?” said Harry nervously .
“The incantation is this —” Lupin cleared his throat . “Expecto patronum!” “Expecto patronum,” Harry repeated under his breath, “expecting hard on your happy memory?” Lupin said .
A dementor rose slowly from the box and started to sweep silently toward Harry, drawing a deep, rattling breath . A wave of piercing cold broke over him — “Expecto patronum!” Harry yelled . “Stand aside. Stand aside, girl!” “Harry!” Harry was lying flat on his back on the floor .
“I’ve got to! What if the dementors turn up at our match against Ravenclaw?” Lupin said . “You might want to select another memory, a happy memory, I mean, to concentrate on. That one doesn’t seem to have been strong enough.” Lupin tried hard to fill his head with happy thoughts about Gryffindor winning .
Harry suddenly realized that there were tears on his face mingling with the sweat . He bent his face as low as possible, wiping them off on his robes, pretending to do up his shoelace, so that Lupin wouldn’t see . “You heard James?” said Lupin in a strange voice .
The screaming inside Harry’s head had started again — except this time, it sounded as though it were coming from a badly tuned radio — softer and louder and softer again . Lupin could still see the dementor — it had halted — and then a huge, silver shadow came bursting out of the end of Harry's wand . “Excellent, Harry! That was definitely a start!” Lupin said, striding over to where Harry sat
Harry left the classroom, walking along the corridor and around a corner, then took a detour behind a suit of armor and sank down on its plinth to finish his chocolate . Then Harry’s thoughts wandered back to his mother and father . “They’re dead and listening to echoes of them won’t bring them back.” He stood up, crammed the last bit of chocolate into his mouth .
Gryffindor would take second place if they beat Ravenclaw too . He increased the number of team practices to five a week . Even so, Harry wasn’t showing the strain nearly as much as Hermione .
Wood shook his head in disbelief . He screwed up his face and imitated Professor McGonagall’s severe voice . “I’m not buying anything Malfoy thinks is good,” said Harry flatly .
Harry felt angry with himself, guilty about his secret desire to hear his parents’ voices again . "You’re expecting too much of yourself," said Professor Lupin sternly . “You’ve achieved a great deal in a very short space of time," Lupin said .
Professor Lupin drank butterbeer in silence, until Harry voiced something he’d been wondering for a while . “What’s under a dementor’s hood?” lowered his bottle thoughtfully . "What — they kill — ?” said Lupin, with a slightly twisted smile .
Harry half wished that he hadn’t asked what was under a dementor’s hood . The answer had been so horrible, and he was so lost in unpleasant thoughts of what it would feel like to have your soul sucked out of you . Harry’s jaw dropped. She was holding out his Firebolt, and it looked as magnificent as ever . Or we’ll be out of the running for the eighth year in a row .
“You know what — we should make up with Hermione....” “Yeah, all right,” said Ron. “She’s in the common room now — working, for a change —” They turned into the corridor to Gryffindor Tower and saw Neville Longbottom pleading with Neville . “But I must’ve dropped them somewhere!” “A likely tale!” roared Sir Cadogan .
Harry and Ron approached her table and at last, she looked up . "I got it back," said Harry, grinning at her and holding up the Firebolt . “Well — there wasn’t anything wrong with it!” said Ron .
“Oh no, it’s wonderful!” said Hermione earnestly . “It’s my favorite subject! It’s —” But exactly what was wonderful about Arithmancy . The whole common room fell silent, staring, petrified, at the entrance . At that precise moment, a strangled yell echoed down the boys’ staircase .
Ron was enraged that Hermione had never taken Crookshanks’s attempts to eat Scabbers seriously, hadn’t bothered to keep a close enough watch on him, and was still trying to pretend that Ron was innocent . Harry had been prejudiced against her cat ever since Crookeds had landed on Ron’s head in the Magical Menagerie . “Okay, side with Ron, I knew you would!” she said shrilly .
Harry persuaded him to come along to the Gryffindor team’s final practice before the Ravenclaw match . Madam Hooch was just as impressed with the Firebolt as everyone else had been . She took it in her hands before takeoff and gave them the benefit of her professional opinion.
Wood scowled his displeasure that Cho Chang had made a full recovery, then said, “On the other hand, she rides a Comet Two Sixty, which is going to look like a joke next to the Firebolt.” It was better than he’d ever dreamed . It was the best practice ever; the team performed their best moves faultlessly, and by the time they hit the ground again, Wood didn’t have a single criticism to make.
“I can’t see what’s going to stop us tomorrow!” said Wood . “The dementors won’t turn up again, Oliver. Dumbledore’d go ballistic,” said Wood confidently . Madam Hooch had fallen asleep in her seat. “Here you go,” said Harry .
Crookshanks had vanished with one swish of his ginger tail . “She’s still letting him wander about wherever he wants ... probably washing down Scabbers with a couple of birds now.” Harry didn’t say anything to Ron — nor did he look left or right until they had reached the well-lit entrance hall .
Penelope put the Firebolt down again, thanked Harry, and went back to her table . “I haven’t got ten Galleons. Yes, I’m coming, Penny!” said Percy .
The Gryffindor team set off for the locker rooms at a quarter to eleven . The weather couldn’t have been more different from their match against Hufflepuff . They could hear the rest of the school moving into the stadium beyond .
The Firebolt's going to be the broom of choice for the national teams at this year’s World Championship . “Jordan, would you mind telling us what’s going on in the match?” interrupted Professor McGonagall’s voice. “Right you are, Professor — just giving a bit of background information — the firebolt, incidentally, has a built-in auto-brake .
George Weasley hit the second Bludger directly at the offending Beater, who was forced to roll right over in midair to avoid it . “Gryffindor leads by eighty points to zero, and look at that Firebolt go! GET ON WITH THE COMMENTARY!” Harry dropped lower, narrowly avoiding a Ravenclaw Chaser .
Harry pulled out of the dive very sharply; she hurtled downward; he rose fast as a bullet once more, and then saw it, for the third time . He was winning, gaining on the Snitch with every second — then — “Oh!” screamed Cho, pointing. Distracted, Harry looked down . Plunging a hand down the neck of his robes, he whipped out his wand and roared, “Expecto patron
Harry turned around to see Professor Lupin, who looked both shaken and pleased . He led Harry out of the crowd until they were able to see the edge of the field . It looked as though Malfoy had been standing on Goyle’s shoulders .
Fred and George Weasley disappeared for a couple of hours and returned with armfuls of butterbeer, pumpkin fizz, and several bags full of Honeydukes sweets . Hermione, incredibly, was sitting in a corner, attempting to read an enormous book entitled Home Life and Social Habits of British Muggles . “I’m very glad we won, and I think you did really well,” said Harry .
Harry and Ron climbed the stairs to their dormitory, still discussing the match . At last, exhausted, Harry climbed into bed, twitched the hangings of his four-poster shut to block out a ray of moonlight, lay back, and felt himself drifting off to sleep . Now he was running flat out, and ahead he could hear galloping .
Harry woke as suddenly as though he’d been hit in the face . At last finding the divide in his curtains, he ripped them back, and at the same moment, Dean Thomas lit his lamp . “You sure you weren’t dreaming, Ron?” said Dean .
Professor McGonagall slammed the portrait behind her as she entered the common room and stared furiously around . “I am delighted that Gryffindor won the match, but this is getting ridiculous! Percy, I expected better of you!” said Perce, puffing himself up indignantly .
Professor McGonagall came back at dawn to tell them that he had again escaped . Filch was suddenly bustling up and down the corridors, boarding up everything from tiny cracks in the walls to mouse holes . Harry couldn’t help noticing that the statue of the one-eyed witch on the third floor remained unguarded and unblocked .
Ron had become an instant celebrity . For the first time in his life, people were paying more attention to him than Harry . Black had proved that he didn’t mind murdering innocent people .
Poor Neville was forced to wait outside the common room every night for somebody to let him in . The security trolls leered unpleasantly at him . Two days after Black’s break-in, she sent Neville the very worst thing a Hogwarts student could receive over breakfast — a Howler .
Harry and Ron left Gryffindor Tower at six o’clock that afternoon . Hagrid opened the front doors and leading them outside . Buckbeak was stretched out on top of Hagrid’s patchwork quilt . “What are they for, Hagrid?” said Harry .
Harry and Ron exchanged uncomfortable looks . “I’ve seen yeh practicin’ Quidditch ev’ry hour o’ the day an’ night — but I’ve had enough ter be gettin’ on with,” Hagrid said .
Buckbeak spat ferret bones onto Hagrid’s pillow . They spent the rest of their visit discussing Gryffindor’s improved chances for the Quidditch Cup . “Well, Filch hasn’t done anything about the passage into Honeydukes....” said Harry .
On Saturday morning, Harry packed his Invisibility Cloak in his bag . He slipped the Marauder’s Map into his pocket, and went down to breakfast with everyone else . Harry hurried up to the third floor, slipping it out of his pocket as he went .
Harry and Neville set off without another word . Harry managed to shake Neville off at the Fat Lady by telling him the password . He pulled out the map again and held it close to his nose .
Harry gave Ron whispered orders and passed him some gold from under the cloak . The day was fine and breezy, and neither of them felt like staying indoors . They walked past the Three Broomsticks and climbed a slope to visit the Shrieking Shack, the most haunted dwelling in Britain .
Malfoy, Crabbe and Goyle sniggered at the crumbling house behind Ron . “Suppose you’d love to live here, wouldn’t you, Weasley? Dreaming about having your own bedroom? I heard your family all sleep in one room — is that true?” Harry seized the back of Ron’s robes to stop him from leaping on him . The opportunity was too perfect to miss .
Malfoy, Crabbe, and Goyle were staring madly around at the deserted landscape . Harry sneaked along the path, where a particularly sloppy puddle yielded some foul-smelling, green sludge . “It came from over there!” said Malfay, wiping his face, and staring at a spot .
Harry pulled off the cloak, tucked it under his arm, and ran, flat out, along the passage . It was Snape, who approached Harry at a swift walk, his black robes swishing, then stopped in front of him . He tried to look innocent, all too aware of his sweaty face and his muddy hands .
Harry followed him downstairs, trying to wipe his hands clean on the inside of his robes . They walked down the stairs to the dungeons and then into Snape’s office . “Mr. Malfoy has just been to see me with a strange story, Potter,” said Snape .
“I know that,” said Harry, striving to keep his face free of guilt or fear . “If your head was in Hogsmeade, so was the rest of you.” Snape’s thin mouth curled into a horrible smile . Famous Harry Potter goes where he wants to, with no thought for the consequences .
Harry was suddenly on his feet. He didn’t care that Snape’s face had gone rigid, the black eyes flashing dangerously . “I told you to shut up about my dad!” Harry yelled. “You wouldn’t even be here if it wasn’t for my dad?” Harry bit his lip .
Harry prayed he’d get a chance to tip Ron off before Snape saw him . He tried with all his might to keep his face impassive . “Why don’t I just — throw this away?” Harry said quickly .
Professor Snape froze. Harry stared, dumbstruck, at the message . But the map didn’t stop there. More writing was appearing beneath the first . “Mr. Prongs agrees with Mr. Moony, and would like to add that Professor SnapE is an ugly git.”
Lupin looked up and warned him not to interrupt . “I imagine Harry got it from a joke shop? You don’t think it more likely that he got it directly from the manufacturers?” said Snape. “You see, Severus?” said Lupin .
Harry, Ron, and Lupin walked all the way back into the entrance hall before speaking . Then Harry turned to Lupin. “Professor, I —” “I don’t want to hear explanations,” Lupin said . “Why did Snape think I’d got it from the manufacturers?” Lupin asked .
“I persuaded you to go. Lupin’s right, it was stupid, we shouldn’t’ve done it —” He broke off . One look at her face convinced Harry that she had heard what had happened . “Come to have a good gloat?” said Ron savagely as she stopped in front of them .
The safety measures imposed on the students since Black’s second break-in made it impossible for Harry, Ron, and Hermione to go and visit Hagrid in the evenings . Their only chance of talking to him was during Care of Magical Creatures lessons . “S’all my fault. Got all tongue-tied. They was all sittin’ there in black robes an’ I kep’ droppin’ me notes and forgetting all them dates yeh looked up fer
Harry, Ron, Crabbe, and Goyle stood flabbergasted as Hermione raised her hand again . “Don’t you dare call Hagrid pathetic, you foul — you evil—” “Get off, Ron!” Ron said again, sounding both stunned and impressed. “We’re due in Charms,” said Professor Flitwick reprovingly as Harry opened the classroom door .
Hermione hadn’t entered the classroom, yet Harry knew she had been right next to him when he had opened the door . “Maybe — maybe she went to the bathroom or something?” Harry said . "You don’t think Malfoy did something to her?” Ron said anxiously as they hurried upstairs toward Gryffindor Tower .
Harry, Ron, and Hermione climbed the ladder into the dim, stifling tower room . The pair sat down together at the same rickety table . Professor Trelawney made her usual dramatic entrance out of the shadows .
Harry and Ron choked back laughs . It was hard to tell whether Professor Trelawney had heard them . "Crystal gazing is a particularly refined art," she said dreamily .
“Something moving ... but what is it?” Professor Trelawney whispered, lowering her face to the ball . He was prepared to bet everything he owned, including his Firebolt, that it wasn’t good news, whatever it was . “Oh, for goodness’ sake!” said Hermione loudly .
Professor Trelawney seemed to have forgotten all about the Grim . She turned abruptly from Harry and Ron’s table, breathing rather heavily as she tugged her gauzy shawl more closely to her . ‘Around Easter, one of our number will leave us forever!’ .
Ron had taken over responsibility for Buckbeak’s appeal . He was so absorbed, he forgot to be horrible to Crookshanks . Harry had to fit in his homework around Quidditch practice every day .
A number of small scuffles broke out in the corridors, culminating in a nasty incident in which a Gryffindor fourth year and a Slytherin sixth year ended up in the hospital wing with leeks sprouting out of their ears . Harry was having a particularly bad time of it. He couldn’t walk to class without Slynderins sticking out their legs and trying to trip him up; Crabbe and Goyle kept popping up wherever he went . The
Oliver Wood was crouched over a model of a Quidditch field in the corner . Angelina, Alicia, and Katie were laughing at Fred’s and George’s jokes . Harry was sitting with Ron and Hermione, removed from the center of things, trying not to think about the next day .
Harry dashed to his bedside table, snatched up his glasses, and put them on, then hurried back to the window . It wasn’t the Grim at all ... it was a cat. And just then, it emerged — a gigantic, shaggy black dog moving stealthily across the lawn, Crookshanks trotting at its side .
Harry and the rest of the Gryffindor team entered the Great Hall the next day to enormous applause . The Slytherin table hissed loudly as they passed . Harry noticed that Malfoy looked even paler than usual . Wood hurried them off to the field before anyone else had finished .
Lee Jordan's comments were drowned by a tide of “boos” from the Slytherin end . Harry, however, thought Lee had a point . Malfoy was easily the smallest person on the team; the rest were enormous .
Alicia Spinnet of Gryffindor with the Quaffle, heading straight for the Slytherin goal posts, looking good, Alicia! Argh, no — Warrington, Warrington of SLYtherin tearing up the field — WHAM! — nice Bludger work there by George Weasley . Angelina was nearly thrown from her broom as Marcus Flint went smashing into her . “Sorry, didn’t see her!” said Flint as the crowd
Harry turned the Firebolt sharply to watch Flint fly forward to take the Slytherin penalty . Madam Hooch's whistle rang out again as she soared over to Montague and began shouting at him . “I’m telling it like it is, Professor!” Harry felt a huge jolt of excitement. He had seen the Snitch — it was shimmering at the foot of a goal post .
Harry pulled his Firebolt around and sped off toward the Slytherin end — it worked . Malfoy went haring after him, clearly thinking Harry had seen the Snitch there . The second Bludger grazed Harry’s elbow, and Harry had a fleeting glimpse of Bole and Derrick zooming toward him .
Bole hit Alicia with his club and tried to say he’d thought she was a Bludger . Madam Hooch awarded both teams penalties, and Wood pulled off another spectacular save . The Snitch had disappeared again .
Harry put on a huge burst of speed; the wind was roaring in his ears . Malfoy had thrown himself forward, grabbed hold of the Firebolt’s tail, and was pulling it back . He had achieved what he’d wanted to do — the Snitch had disappeared again .
Malfoy yelled in frustration as he tried to turn and found Harry blocking him . Harry wheeled the Firebolt around, bent so low he was lying flat along the handle, and kicked it forward . He had almost pelted headlong into the stands, skidded to a halt in midair .
Harry felt two large thumps as Fred and George hit them; then Angelina’s, Alicia’s and Katie’s voices, “We’ve won the Cup!” Tangled together in a many-armed hug, the Gryffindor team sank, yelling hoarsely, back to earth . Then he saw Hagrid, plastered with crimson rosettes . There was Percy, jumping up and down like a maniac,
Harry’s euphoria at finally winning the Quidditch Cup lasted at least a week . As June approached, the days became cloudless and sultry . Even Fred and George Weasley had been spotted working; they were about to take their O.W.L.s .
“I’ve spent ages reading up on stuff for him; they can’t just ignore it all!” Ron howled . “Oh, yeah, I borrowed it for a bit of bedtime reading,” Ron said .
Harry had a horrible feeling that the Committee for the Disposal of Dangerous Creatures had its mind made up for it by Mr. Malfoy . It was all Harry could do to stop himself imitating Hermione and hitting Malfay in the face on these occasions . The worst thing of all was that they had no time or opportunity to go and see Hagrid .
Professor Flitwick did indeed test them on Cheering Charms . Harry slightly overdid his out of nerves and Ron ended up in fits of hysterical laughter . After dinner, the students hurried back to their common rooms, not to relax .
Professor Lupin had compiled the most unusual exam any of them had ever taken . They had to wade across a deep paddling pool containing a grindylow, cross a series of potholes full of Red Caps, then climb into an old trunk and battle with a new boggart .
Cornelius Fudge, sweating slightly in his pinstriped cloak, was standing there staring out at the grounds . “Hello there, Harry!” he said. “Just had an exam, I expect? Nearly finished?” “Yes,” said Harry. “No, no, it’s scheduled for this afternoon,” said Fudge .
Harry's and Ron's last exam was Divination; Hermione’s, Muggle Studies . They walked up the marble staircase together; Harry and Ron proceeded all the way up to the seventh . He kept checking his watch; Harry knew that he was counting down the time until Buckbeak’s appeal started .
Neville squeaked Neville as he clambered back down the ladder toward Harry and Ron, who had now reached the landing . “You know, I’m starting to think Hermione was right about her” — he jabbed his thumb toward the trapdoor overhead — “she’s a right old fraud.” “Wish she’d hurry up ...” She hurried off down the spiral staircase toward Lavender .
Harry bent over the crystal ball and stared as hard as he could, willing it to show him something other than swirling white fog . The heat was overpowering and his nostrils were stinging with the perfumed smoke wafting from the fire beside them . “Er —” said Harry, “a dark shape ... um ...” “What does it resemble?” whispered Professor Trelawney .
Professor Trelawney had gone rigid in her armchair; her eyes were unfocused and her mouth sagging . She looked as though she was about to have some sort of seizure . The Dark Lord lies alone and friendless, abandoned by his followers . Tonight, before midnight ... the servant will break free and set out to rejoin ... his master .
Professor Trelawney's words still resounding in his head . He stopped abruptly at the sight of their faces . Hagrid’s note was dry this time, no tears had splattered it .
“If he sees you. How do you open the witch’s hump again?” said Harry . Hermione strode across the room, pushed open the Fat Lady’s portrait and vanished from sight . “She hasn’t gone to get it?” Ron said, staring after her .
“We’re wearing the Invisibility Cloak. Let us in and we can take it off.” “Yeh shouldn’ve come!” Hagrid whispered, but he stood back, and they stepped inside . Hagrid looked like a man who did not know where he was or what to do . “Where’s Buckbeak, Hagrid?” said Hermione hesitantly .
“He’s got no power ter overrule the Committee. He told ’em Buckbeak’s all right, but they’re scared. ... I expect ... an’ the executioner, Macnair, he’s an old pal o’ Malfoy’s ... but it’ll be quick an’ clean ... ter be with me. Great man, Dumbledore.” Hermione, who had been rummaging in Hagrid’s cupboard
Scabbers the rat came sliding out onto the table . He was thinner than ever, large tufts of hair had fallen out leaving wide bald patches . Hagrid stood up, his eyes fixed on the window, his normally ruddy face had gone the color of parchment.
“It’s okay, Beaky,” said Hagrid softly. “Go on,” he said. “Get goin’.” But they didn’t move . “They’ll tell them what really happened —” “They can’t kill him —,” Hagrid said fiercely .
The rat was squealing wildly, but not loudly enough to cover up the sounds drifting from Hagrid’s garden . Hermione swayed on the spot. “I d — don’t believe it — they did it!” She whispered to Harry . “We can’t,” said Ron, who was paper-white .
The rat was wriggling madly. Ron came to a sudden halt, trying to force Scabbers deeper into his pocket . “What’s the matter with you, you stupid rat? Stay still — OUCH! He bit me!” Hermione whispered urgently. “He won’t — stay — put —” Harry had just seen .
Harry and Hermione almost fell over Ron; they skidded to a stop right in front of him . He was sprawled on the ground, but Scabbers was back in his pocket . Then, out of nowhere, something hit Harry so hard across the face he was knocked off his feet again .
The wandlight showed him the trunk of a thick tree; they chased Scabbers into the shadow of the Whomping Willow and its branches were creaking as though in a high wind, whipping backward and forward to stop them going nearer . And there, at the base of the trunk, was the dog, dragging Ron backward into a large gap in the roots . All they could see now was one of Ron’s legs, which he had hooked around a root in an effort to
“Where’s Ron?” Hermione whispered in a terrified voice . “This way,” said Harry, setting off, bent-backed, after Crookshanks . He was drawing breath in sharp, painful gasps, running at a crouch.
Harry glanced at Hermione, who looked very frightened but nodded . The room was deserted, but a door to their right stood open, leading to a shadowy hallway . Harry pulled himself out of the hole, staring around .
Ron was staring over Harry’s shoulder. Harry wheeled around. With a snap, the man in the shadows closed the door behind them. A mass of filthy, matted hair hung to his elbows . The waxy skin was stretched so tightly over the bones of his face, it looked like a skull .
“No, Harry!” Hermione gasped in a petrified whisper; Ron spoke to Black . “If you want to kill Harry, you’ll have to kill us too!” he said fiercely .
Black had forgotten that he was short and skinny and thirteen, whereas Black was a tall, full-grown man . Black didn’t raise the wands in time — one of Harry’s hands fastened over his wasted wrist . The knuckles of Harry's other hand collided with the side of Black’s head and they fell, backward, into the wall . Harry felt the shrunken arm under his fingers twisting madly, but he clung on,
“No YOU DON’T!” roared Harry, and aimed a kick at Crookshanks that made the cat leap aside, spitting . Ron crawled to the four-poster and collapsed onto it, panting . Black was sprawled at the bottom of the wall . His thin chest rose and fell rapidly as he watched Harry walking slowly nearer, his wand still pointing at Black’s heart .
Crookshanks sank his claws into Black’s robes and wouldn’t shift . He turned his ugly, squashed face to Harry and looked up at him with those great yellow eyes . Now was the moment to avenge his mother and father. He had to kill Black. This was his chance. The seconds lengthened.
Lupin's eyes flickered over Ron, lying on the floor, over Hermione, cowering next to the door, to Harry, standing there with his wand covering Black, and then to Black himself, crumpled and bleeding at Harry’s feet . Lupin caught them all deftly, then moved into the room, staring at Black, who still had Crookshanks lying protectively across his chest . Harry looked quickly at Lupin. He didn’t understand what Lupin
Lupin was lowering his wand, gazing fixedly at Black . The Professor walked to Black’s side, seized his hand, pulled him to his feet so that Crookshanks fell to the floor . Lupin let go of Black and turned to her. “Hermione, listen to me, please!” Lupin shouted .
Ron gasped, “Get away from me, werewolf!” Lupin stopped dead . Then, with an obvious effort, he turned to Hermione and said, “How long have you known?” “Ages,” Lupin whispered . “You’re the cleverest witch of your age I’ve ever met, Hermimione.” “I’m not.” “If I’d been a bit cleverer, I'd have told everyone what you are!” “At least, the
Harry was pointing at Black, who suddenly crossed to the four-poster bed and sank onto it . Crookshanks leapt up beside him and stepped onto his lap, purring . Harry separated Harry’s, Ron’s and Hermione’s wands and threw each back to its owner .
“What?” said Lupin, still pacing, and ignoring Harry’s interruption . “I thought the map must be malfunctioning. How could he be with you?” said Harry. “No, Ron,” Lupin said angrily. “Do you think I could have a look at the rat?” Ron said evenly .
“No, he’s not,” said Lupin quietly . “An Animagus,” said Black, “by the name of Peter Pettigrew.” “You’re both mental.” “Ridiculous!” said Hermione faintly. “He killed him twelve years ago!” He pointed at Black .
Ron yelled, trying to force the rat back into his pocket, but Scabbers was fighting too hard . Ron swayed and overbalanced, and Harry pushed him back down to the bed . “Everyone thought Sirius killed Peter,” said Lupin savagely .
“Why can’t it be true?” Lupin said calmly, as though they were in class . The Ministry of Magic keeps tabs on witches and wizards who can become animals . There’s a register showing what animal they become and their markings and things .
“I was a very small boy when I received the bite. My parents tried everything, but in those days there was no cure. It makes me safe, you see. As long as I take it in the week preceding the full moon, I keep my mind when I transform .
The Whomping Willow was planted because I came to Hogwarts . Once a month, Lupin was smuggled out of the castle, into this place, to transform . The only sound apart from Lupin’s voice was Scabbers’s frightened squeaking .
“They didn’t desert me at all. Instead, they did something for me that would make my transformations not only bearable, but the best times of my life. They became Animagi.” “My dad too?” said Harry, astounded. “Yes, indeed,” Lupin. “It took them the best part of three years to work out how to do it. Your father and Sirius here were the cleverest students in the school, and lucky they were, because the Animagus transformation can go horribly
Sirius and James transformed into such large animals, they were able to keep a werewolf in check . I doubt whether any Hogwarts students ever found out more about the grounds and Hogsmeade than we did . And that’s how we came to write the Marauder’s Map, and sign it with our nicknames .
Dumbledore's trust has meant everything to me . He let me into Hogwarts as a boy, and he gave me a job when I have been shunned all my adult life, unable to find paid work because of what I am . “What’s Snape got to do with it?” said Lupin .
Severus Snape was pulling off the Invisibility Cloak, his wand pointing directly at Lupin . The Servant of Lord Voldemort Hermione screamed. Black leapt to his feet . Harry felt as though he’d received a huge electric shock .
“You forgot to take your potion tonight, so I took a gobletful along.” “Severus —” Lupin began, but Snape overrode him . “You haven’t heard everything — I can explain — Sirius is not here to kill Harry,” said Lupin .
Ron and Hermione looked just as confused as he did, still fighting to keep hold on the struggling Scabbers . “You, Potter, and Weasley are out-of-bounds, in the company of a convicted murderer and a werewolf. For once in your life, hold your tongue.” “But if — if there was a mistake —” “KEEP QUIET, YOU STUPID GIRL!” Snape shouted, looking suddenly quite derange
Harry crossed the room in three strides and blocked the door . “Get out of the way, Potter, you’re in enough trouble already,” snarled Snape .
Snape was lifted off his feet and slammed into the wall, then slid down it to the floor, a trickle of blood oozing from under his hair . Harry avoided Black’s eyes. He wasn’t sure, even now, that he’d done the right thing . “You, boy — give me Peter, please. Now.” Lupin said .
“How did you find out where he was?” Lupin asked Black, thunderstruck. “Fudge,” said Black. “When he came to inspect Azkaban last year, he gave me his paper. And there was Peter, on this boy’s shoulder ... I knew him at once ... how many times had I seen him transform? “My God,” said Lupin softly, staring from Scabbers to the picture in the paper and back again .
“We — we’ve been taking good care of him!” said Lupin . “He’s been scared of that mad cat!” said Ron, nodding toward Crookshanks .
“And why did he fake his death?” Lupin said furiously . “Because he knew you were about to kill him like you killed my parents!” Lupin, “Yes, I have,” said Black .
Ron asked Lupin tensely. “Force him to show himself,” said Lupin. “If he really is a rat, it won’t hurt him.” Then at long last, he held out Scabbers and Lupin took him .
Harry and Hermione had the shrunken appearance of a plump man . His thin, colorless hair was unkempt and there was a large bald patch on top . He looked grubby, almost like Scabbers’s fur, and something of the rat lingered around his pointed nose and his very small, watery eyes .
“No one’s going to try and kill you until we’ve sorted a few things out,” said Lupin . “You knew he’d come after me!” Pettigrew shouted shrilly. “He’s got dark powers the rest of us can only dream of!” Black started to laugh .
"You haven’t been hiding from me for twelve years," said Black . "I heard things in Azkaban, Peter. They all think you’re dead, or you’d have to answer to them." "You don’t believe this — this madness, Remus —" squealed Pettigrew, more shrilly than ever .
Pettigrew was muttering distractedly; Harry caught words like “far-fetched” and “lunacy” . “I thought it was the perfect plan ... a bluff. It must have been the finest moment of your miserable life, telling Voldemort you could hand him the Potters”
Voldemort’s been in hiding for fifteen years, they say he’s half dead . You weren’t about to commit murder right under Albus Dumbledore’s nose, for a wreck of a wizard who’d lost all of his power, were you? You’d want to be quite sure he was the biggest bully in the playground before you went back to him, wouldn’t you? Just in case your old protector regained strength, and it was safe to rejoin him
“I don’t know how I did it,” Harry said slowly . “I think the only reason I never lost my mind is that I knew I was innocent. That wasn’t a happy thought, so the dementors couldn't suck it out of me ... but it kept me sane and knowing who I am ... helped me keep my powers ... so when it all became ... too much ... I could transform in my cell ... become a dog,” he swallowed
Pettigrew had fallen to his knees as though Harry’s nod had been his own death sentence . He squeaked, turning to Lupin instead, writhing imploringly in front of him . “You don’t believe this ... wouldn’t Sirius have told you they’d changed the plan?” he said casually over his head. “I assume that’s why you didn’t tell me, Sirius?”
“Not at all, Padfoot, old friend,” said Lupin, who began rolling up his sleeves . “You wouldn’t ... you won’t... ,” gasped Pettigrew . He scrambled around to Ron, “I let you sleep in my bed!” He said . „If you made a better rat than a human, it’s not much to boast about, Peter,” said Black .
Black and Lupin strode forward, seized Pettigrew’s shoulders, and threw him backward onto the floor . “I was scared, Sirius, I was never brave like you and Remus and James. I never meant it to happen,” Black roared .
“You should have realized,” said Lupin quietly, “if Voldemort didn’t kill you, we would. Good-bye, Peter.” Hermione covered her face with her hands and turned to the wall . “Harry, this piece of vermin is the reason you have no parents,” Black snarled .
Harry stepped out of the way. “I’m going to tie him up,” said Lupin . “You were just a little — overenthusiastic. Still out cold. Er — perhaps it will be best if we don’t revive him until we’re safely back in the castle. We can take him like this.
Lupin picked up the Invisibility Cloak and tucked it safely into his pocket . “And two of us should be chained to this,” said Lupin . Lupin, Pettigrew, and Ron went next, looking like entrants .
“You know what this means?” Black said abruptly to Harry as they made their slow progress along the tunnel . “Yeah, I knew that,” said Harry. “Well ... your parents appointed me your guardian,” said Black stiffly .
Snape collided with Lupin, Pettigrew, and Ron, who had stopped abruptly . Black saw Snape up through the hole, then stood back for Harry and Hermione to pass . At last, all of them were out. The grounds were very dark now; the only light came from the distant windows of the castle .
Crookshanks’s hair was on end again; he was backing away . As the werewolf reared, snapping its long jaws, Sirius disappeared from Harry’s side . The enormous, bearlike dog bounded forward .
Harry and Hermione dashed over to Ron. “What did he do to him?” Ron whispered. “I don’t know....” Harry looked desperately around. Black and Lupin both gone ... they had no one but Snape for company, still hanging, unconscious, in midair. “We’d better get them up to the castle and tell someone,” said Harry .
Harry yelled, raising his wand, blinking furiously to try and clear his vision . “Expecto patronum! Expecto patronum!” Black gave a shudder, rolled over, and lay motionless on the ground, pale as death. He’ll be all right. I’m going to go and live with him .
A dead, slimy hand slid out from under the cloak . It made a gesture as though to sweep the Patronus aside . He could feel them watching him, hear their rattling breath like an evil wind around him . The nearest dementor seemed to be considering him. Then it raised both its rotting hands — and lowered its hood .
Harry saw a silvery light growing brighter and brighter . He felt himself fall forward onto the grass . The dementor must have released him . It was circling around him and Black and Hermione. The air was warm again .
Black had bewitched them, I saw it immediately. A Confundus Charm, to judge by their behavior . They seemed to think there was a possibility he was innocent. They weren’t responsible for their actions . On the other hand, their interference might have allowed Black to escape .
Madam Pomfrey looked petrified, and when she saw that Harry was awake, pressed a finger to her lips, then pointed to the hospital wing door . She placed the chocolate on Harry’s bedside table and began breaking it apart with a small hammer . “How’s Ron?” said Harry and Hermione together. “I need to see the headmaster,” he said.
Harry jumped up out of bed; Hermione had done the same . But his shout had been heard in the corridor outside . “Harry, Harry, what’s this?” said Cornelius Fudge .
Madam Pomfrey suddenly stuffed a large chunk of chocolate into Harry’s mouth . “I’m not distressed, I’m trying to tell them what happened!” Harry said furiously. “Now, please, Minister, these children need care. Please leave —” The door opened again .
Madam Pomfrey pursed her lips and strode away into her office . He crossed to the door and held it open for Snape, but Snape hadn’t moved . “You surely don’t believe a word of Black’s story?” Snape whispered, his eyes fixed on Dumbledore’s face .
A street full of eyewitnesses swore they saw Sirius murder Pettigrew . “Professor Lupin can tell you —” Harry said, unable to stop himself . By the time he is human again, it will be too late, Sirius will be worse than dead .
Dumbledore had turned on his heel and looked back as he reached the door . “You — must — not — be — seen,” Harry repeated . Hermione was fumbling with the neck of her robes, pulling from beneath them a very fine gold chain .
He looked wildly around at Hermione, the chain of the hourglass cutting into his neck . He dragged him across the hall to the door of a broom closet; she opened it, pushed him inside among the buckets and mops, then slammed the door behind them . It hurt a lot, which seemed to rule out the possibility that he was having a very bizarre dream .
Professor McGonagall made me swear I wouldn’t tell anyone . She had to write all sorts of letters to the Ministry of Magic so I could have one . “Harry, I don’t understand what Dumbledore wants us to do. Why did he tell us to go back three hours? How’s that going to help Sirius?” Harry stared at her shadowy face .
Harry pushed open the closet door and down the stone steps . The shadows were already lengthening, the tops of the trees in the Forbidden Forest gilded once more with gold . “Okay, but we’ll go around by the greenhouses!” said Harry .
“We’re wearing the Invisibility Cloak. Let us in and we can take it off.” “Yeh shouldn’ve come!” Harry whispered fervently. “Let’s move along a bit,” Hermione whispers . “We need to get nearer to Buckbeak!” They crept through the trees until they saw the nervous hippogriff, tethered to the fence around Hagrid’s pumpkin patch .
Hagrid, Ron, and Hermione were walking out of it with Hagrid . It was, without a doubt, the strangest sensation of his life . There was a knock on Hagrid’s front door. The execution party had arrived .
“We — er — have to read you the official notice of execution, Hagrid. I’ll make it quick.” Macnair’s face vanished from the window . “Wait here,” Harry whispered to Hermione. “I’ll do it.” As Fudge’s voice started again, Harry darted out from behind his tree, vaulted the fence into the pumpkin patch, and approached Buckbeak .
The hippogriff began to walk, rustling its wings irritably . The footsteps stopped. Harry heaved on the rope. Buckbeak snapped his beak and walked a little faster . Hermione moaned, darting out from behind her tree, seizing the rope too .
Harry and Hermione listened closely. They heard footsteps, the soft cursing of the executioner, the snap of the door, and then silence once more . “We’re going to have to move,” said Harry, thinking hard . "We’ve got to be able to see the Whomping Willow," said Harry .
The Whomping Willow was creaking and lashing out with its lower branches . “Ouch — look, I just got walloped by the tree — and so did you — this is weird —” said Harry . The moment they disappeared, the tree began to move again .
Harry looked up at the sky. Clouds were obscuring the moon completely . They watched Lupin seize a broken branch from the ground and prod the knot on the trunk . The tree stopped fighting, and Lupin, too, disappeared into the gap in its roots .
Harry’s fists clenched as they watched Snape skid to a halt next to the tree . He grabbed the branch Lupin had used to freeze the tree, prodded the knot, and vanished from view as he put on the cloak . “We’re all down there ... and now we’ve just got to wait until we come back up again,” said Hermione quietly .
Harry swallowed, knowing how strange this was going to sound . Hermione was still looking at him as though worried about his sanity . He turned to look at Buckbeak, who was digging his beak into the ground, apparently searching for worms .
The moon drifted in and out of sight behind shifting clouds . Hermione sat with her face turned toward the Willow, waiting . She and Harry got to their feet. Buckbeak raised his head . They saw Lupin, Pettigrew, and Ron clambering awkwardly out of the hole in the roots ... followed by the unconscious Snape .
Harry skidded to the door, wrenched it open, and Buckbeak flashed past him . “Shh, Fang, it’s us!” said Hermione, hurrying over and scratching his ears to quieten him. “I think I’d better go outside again, you know,” said Harry slowly .
A terrified excitement shot through him — any moment now — “Come on!” he muttered, staring about . It was time for the rescuer to appear — but no one was coming to help this time . He hadn’t seen his father — he had seen himself — He flung himself out from behind the bush .
It was galloping silently away from him, across the black surface of the lake . He saw it lower its head and charge at the swarming dementors . The Patronus turned. It was cantering back toward Harry across the still surface . But as his trembling fingertips stretched toward the creature, it vanished .
“I knew I could do it this time,” said Harry, “because I’d already done it” . Snape had regained consciousness. He was conjuring stretchers and lifting the limp forms of Harry, Hermione, and Black onto them . A fourth stretcher, no doubt bearing Ron, was already floating at his side . Then, wand held out in front of him, moved them away toward the castle .
Harry pulled Buckbeak’s rope back over his neck and tied it to the other side of his collar like reins . “Ready?” he whispered to Hermione. “You’d better hold on to me —” He nudged Buckbek’s sides with his heels . He gripped his flanks with his knees, feeling the great wings rising powerfully beneath them .
“You’ve got to get out of here — the dementors are coming — Macnair’s gone to get them.” Black placed a hand on either side of the window frame and heaved his head and shoulders out of it . “Okay, Buckbeak, up!” said Harry, shaking the rope . The hippogriff gave one sweep of its mighty wings and they were soaring upward again .
Owl Post Again “Harry!” Hermione was tugging at her watch . They slipped through the doorway behind them and down a tightly spiraling stone staircase . It sounded like Fudge and Snape. The Kiss will be performed immediately?
“I bet he’s all excited because the dementors are going to finish off Sirius....” She checked her watch. “Three minutes, Harry!” They waited until Peeves’s gloating voice had faded into the distance . “Okay — I can hear Dumbledore,” said Hermione tensely. “I am going to lock you in,” they heard him saying .
Harry and Hermione slipped back inside the dormitory . It was empty except for Ron, who was still lying motionless in the end bed . As the lock clicked behind them, Harry crept back to their own beds . Madam Pomfrey came striding back out of her office .
Fudge, Snape, and Dumbledore came striding into the hospital wing . But Snape was beside himself. “WHAT DID YOU DO?” Snape shrieked Madam Pomfrey . “You’re talking nonsense!” Snape howled, pointing at Harry and Hermione .
“I’d watch out for him if I were you, Dumbledore.” “He’s just suffered a severe disappointment” puffed Fudge . “Oh yes, they’ll have to go,” said Fudge, running his fingers distractedly through his hair .
Harry, Ron, and Hermione wandered onto the grounds, still talking about the events of the previous night and wondering where Sirius and Buckbeak were now . Harry lost the thread of the conversation as he looked across to the opposite bank . The stag had galloped toward him from there just last night .
Professor Lupin was bending over something on his desk and looked up only when Harry knocked on the door . “I saw you coming,” said Lupin, smiling . He started opening his desk drawers and taking out the contents .
Lupin threw his last few books into his case, closed the desk drawers, and turned to look at Harry . “You’re not leaving just because of that!” said Harry. “This time tomorrow, the owls will start arriving from parents. They will not want a werewolf teaching their children, Harry. And after last night, I see their point. I could have bitten any of you.” Lupin said.
“I am no longer your teacher, so I don’t feel guilty about giving you back this as well. It’s no use to me, and I daresay you, Ron, and Hermione will find uses for it.” Lupin hastily stuffed the Marauder’s Map and the Invisibility Cloak into his pocket .
“It didn’t make any difference,” said Harry bitterly . “I stopped Sirius and Professor Lupin from killing Pettigrew! That makes it my fault if Voldemort comes back!” said Harry .
“I don’t want a connection with Pettigrew!” said Harry. “He betrayed my parents!” Dumbledore looked as though he knew what Harry was thinking . “I thought it was my dad who’d conjured my Patronus. I mean, when I saw myself across the lake ... I thought I was seeing him.” “I think you’ll tire of hearing it, but you do look extraordinarily like James.
Harry, Ron, Hermione, and Professor Dumbledore left the office, leaving Harry to his very confused thoughts . As the end of term approached, Harry heard many different theories about what had really happened, but none of them came close to the truth . Percy Weasley had much to say on Sirius’s escape .
Professor Lupin's departure was weighing on Harry's mind . It wasn’t only Professor Trelawney’s prediction that Professor Lupine would be living with Sirius . The exam results came out on the last day of term . Harry, Ron, and Hermione had passed every subject .
Gryffindor House, meanwhile, had won the House championship for the third year running . The end of term feast took place amid decorations of scarlet and gold . Even Harry managed to forget about the journey back to the Dursleys the next day .
Harry joined Ron and Hermione in several games of Exploding Snap . It was late in the afternoon before the thing that made him truly happy turned up . The owl dropped its letter onto Harry’s seat and began zooming around their compartment, apparently very pleased with itself for accomplishing its task .
I am planning to allow some Muggles to glimpse me soon, a long way from Hogwarts . There is something I never got around to telling you during our brief meeting . I used your name but told them to take the gold from my own Gringotts vault . Please consider it as thirteen birthdays’ worth of presents from your godfather .
Sirius Black, Harry Potter’s godfather, hereby give him permission to visit Hogsmeade on weekends . Harry read and reread the letter from Sirius all the way back into King’s Cross station . It was still clutched tightly in his hand as he, Ron, and Hermione stepped back through platform nine and three-quarters .
“It’s a letter from my godfather.” “Godfather?” sputtered Uncle Vernon. “You haven’t got a godfather!” “Yes, I have,” said Harry brightly . Owl Post Aunt Marge’s Big Mistake The Knight Bus The Leaky Cauldron The Dementor Talons and Tea Leaves The Boggart in the Wardrobe Flight of the Fat Lady Grim Defeat The Marauder’s Map .
