The Riddle House was once a fine-looking manor, and easily the largest and grandest building for miles around . It stood on a hill overlooking the village, some of its windows boarded, tiles missing from its roof, and ivy spreading unchecked over its face . Half a century ago, something strange and horrible had happened there, something that the older inhabitants of Little Hangleton still liked to discuss when topics for gossip were scarce . The story had been picked over so many times, and
Frank Bryce had come back from the war with a very stiff leg and a great dislike of crowds and loud noises . There was a rush to buy the cook drinks and hear more details . “Always thought he was odd,” said a woman at the bar .
Frank Bryce killed the Riddles in Little Hangleton, near Great Hangleton . The police had never read an odder report . A team of doctors had examined the bodies and concluded none had been poisoned, stabbed, shot, strangles, suffocated or harmed at all .
Frank was nearing his seventy-seventh birthday now, very deaf, his bad leg stiffer than ever, but could be seen pottering around the flower beds in fine weather . Boys from the village made a habit of throwing stones through the windows of the Riddle House . Frank, for his part, believed the boys tormented him because they thought him a murderer .
Frank limped downstairs into the kitchen with the idea of refilling his hot-water bottle to ease stiffness in his knee . Standing at the sink, filling the kettle, he looked up at the Riddle House and saw lights glimmering in its upper windows . The boys had broken into the house again, and judging by the flickering quality of the light, they had started a fire .
Frank reached the hall, which was a little lighter owing to the large mullioned windows on either side of the front door, and started to climb the stairs . On the landing, Frank turned right, and saw at once where the intruders were: At the every end of the passage a door stood ajar, and a flickering light shone through the gap, casting a long sliver of gold across the black floor . The fire, he now saw, had been lit
Frank inserted a gnarled finger into his ear and rotated it . He distinctly heard the words “Ministry of Magic,” “wizards” and “Muggles.” Plainly, each of these expressions meant something secret .
“I could be done without Harry Potter, My Lord.” Another pause, more protracted, and then — “Without Harry Potter?” breathed the second voice softly. “My Lord, I do not say this out of concern for the boy!” said Wormtail, his voice rising squeakily . “The boy is nothing to me, nothing at all! It is simply that if we were to use another witch or wizard,” said the cold voice .
“I am no stronger, and a few days alone would be enough to rob me of the little health I have regained under your clumsy care. Silence!” Wormtail, who had been sputtering incoherently, fell silent at once . Frank could hear nothing but the fire crackling. The second man spoke once more, in a whisper that was almost a hiss .
“I found you,” said Wormtail, sounding amused . “I — I thought she might be useful, My Lord —” “Liar,” said the second voice again, the cruel amusement more pronounced than ever .
It would be an insult to her memory not to use the information I extracted from her, Wormtail.” Out in the corridor, Frank suddenly became aware that the hand gripping his walking stick was slippery with sweat . The man with the cold voice had killed a woman. He was talking about it without any kind of remorse — with amusement. And he was planning more murders . Now, if ever, was the time to go to the police .
Frank stared as its undulating body cut a wide, curving track through the thick dust on the floor, coming closer and closer . But before he had made his decision, the snake was level with him, and then, incredibly, miraculously, it was passing . There was sweat on Frank’s forehead now, and the hand on the walking stick was trembling . The problem was that his legs didn’t seem to want to move .
The cold voice was coming from the ancient armchair before the fire, but Frank couldn’t see the speaker . The snake, on the other hand, was curled up on the rotting hearth rug, like some horrible travesty of a pet dog . Frank stared at the back of the armchair; the man inside it seemed to be even smaller than his servant . “I am calling you a Muggle,” said the voice coolly .
The Scar Harry lay flat on his back, breathing hard as though he had been running . The old scar on his forehead was burning beneath his fingers as though someone had just pressed a white-hot wire to his skin . He put them on and his bedroom came into clearer focus, lit by a faint, misty orange light that was filtering through the window .
Harry tried to remember what he had been dreaming about before awoke . The dim picture of a darkened room came to him... There had been a snake on a hearth rug... a small man called Peter, nicknamed Wormtail... and a cold, high voice... the voice of Lord Voldemort . Harry put his face into his hands, blocking out his bedroom, trying to hold on to the picture of that dimly lit room, but it was like trying to keep water in his cup
A large wooden trunk stood open at the foot of his bed, revealing a cauldron, broomstick, black robes, and assorted spellbooks . On the floor beside his bed a book lay open; Harry had been reading it before falling asleep last night . Harry walked over to the book, picked it up, and watched on of the wizards score a spectacular goal by putting the ball through a fifty-foot-high hoop . Then he snapped the book shut
Harry had lost all the bones from his right arm once and had them painfully regrown in a night . The same arm had been pierced by a venomous foot-long fang not long afterward . Voldemort couldn’t be here, now... Harry listened closely to the silence around him .
Asleep was the way Harry liked the Dursleys best; it wasn’t as though they were ever any help to him awake . They had explained away Harry’s long absences at Hogwarts over the last three years by telling everyone that he went to St. Brutus’s Secure Center for Incurably Criminal Boys . Harry had never been able to confide in them or tell them anything about his life in the wizarding world .
Harry had been a year old the night that Voldemort arrived at his house . Harry had turned his wand on Harry; he had performed the curse that had disposed of many full-grown witches and wizards in his steady rise to power . He had survived with nothing but a lightning-shaped cut on his forehead . It had been enough of a shock for Harry to discover that he was a wizard .
Harry was the only living person to have survived a curse like Voldemort’s . It was highly unlikely that he would find his symptoms listed in Common Magical Ailments and Afflictions . As for informing the headmaster, Harry had no idea where Dumbledore went during the summer holidays . He was sure that Hedwig would be able to find him .
Harry was a fully qualified wizard who worked in the Misuse of Muggle Artifacts Office at the Ministry of Magic, but he didn’t have any particular expertise in the matter of curses, as far as Harry knew . The Weasleys were Harry’s favorite family in the world; he was hoping that they might invite him to stay any time now . It was so simple, and so obvious, that he couldn’t believe it had taken so long - Sirius .
Sirius had been in Azkaban, the wizard jail guarded by creatures called dementors, sightless, soul-sucking fiends who had come to search for Sirius at Hogwarts when he had escaped . Harry, Ron, and Hermione knew otherwise; they had come face-to-face with Wormtail only the previous year, though only Professor Dumbledore had believed their story . But the chance had been snatched away from him 
Harry had received two letters from Sirius since he had been back at Privet Drive . Both had been delivered, not by owls, but by large, brightly colored tropical birds . Sirius’s letters, which were now hidden beneath the loose floorboards under Harry’s bed, sounded cheerful .
Harry Yes, thought Harry, that looked all right . He folded up the parchment and laid it aside on his desk . Then he got to his feet, stretched, and opened his wardrobe once more . Uncle Vernon’s red face was hidden behind the morning’s Daily Mail .
Aunt Petunia always insisted that Dudley was a very gifted boy . Uncle Vernon maintained that "he didn’t want some swotty little nancy boy for a son anyway" Uncle Vernon had said tearfully . At the bottom of the report there were a few well-chosen comments from the school nurse .
Aunt Petunia had insisted that the whole family follow the diet too . He noticed that it was a lot smaller than Dudley’s .
Harry had returned from Hermione’s house with a large box stuffed full of sugar-free snacks . Mrs. Weasley had sent the family owl, Errol, with an enormous fruitcake and assorted meat pies . Poor Errol had needed a full five days to recover from the journey .
Uncle Vernon glared at Harry, then looked down at the letter and began to read aloud . Uncle Vernon looked livid. “You,” he barked at Harry. “In the living room. Now.” Bewildered, wondering what on earth he was supposed to have done this time, Harry got up and followed Uncle Vernon out of the kitchen and into the next room.
Harry hasn’t hosted the Quidditch World Cup for thirty years . It would be best for Harry to send us your answer as quickly as possible in the normal way . Uncle Vernon finished reading, put his hand back into his breast pocket, and drew out something else .
Uncle Vernon was glaring at Harry, who tried to keep his expression neutral . Harry thought he knew what was going on behind the mustache . Allowing Harry to go would make Harry happy, something Uncle Vernon had struggled against for thirteen years .
Uncle Vernon looked as outraged as if Harry had just uttered a disgusting swearword . He shot a nervous look through the window, as though expecting to see neighbors with their ears pressed against the glass . "You stand there, in the clothes Petunia and I have put on your ungrateful back," said Harry coldly .
Harry stopped there to enjoy the effect of these words . If he tried to stop Harry writing to Sirius, Sirius would think Harry was being mistreated . There was only one thing for Uncle Vernon to do, Harry could see the conclusion forming in his uncle’s mind as though the great mustached face were transparent .
Harry turned and walked toward the living room door, fighting the urge to jump into the air and whoop . He was going... he was going to watch Quidditch World Cup! Harry looked shocked to see the broad grin on Dudley’s face .
Mum 's writing to the Muggles to ask you to stay. Thought I’d send this with Pig anyway . Harry stared at the word “Pig,” then looked up at the tiny owl now zooming around the light fixture on the ceiling . He had never seen anything that looked less like a pig . Maybe he couldn’t read Ron’s writing .
He folded this note up very small, and with immense difficulty, tied it to the tiny owl’s leg as it hopped on the spot with excitement . The moment the note was secure, it was off again; it zoomed out of the window and out of sight . Hedwig hooted in a dignified sort of a way, picking up his letter . “Can you take this to Sirius for me?” he said .
Harry had emptied his hiding place under the loose floorboard of all food, double-checked every nook and cranny of his bedroom for forgotten spellbooks or quills . The atmosphere inside number four, Privet Drive was extremely tense . Harry had rarely seen Mr. or Mrs. Weasley wearing anything that the Dursleys would call “normal”
Dudley had emerged from his last encounter with a fully grown wizard . Aunt Petunia and Uncle Vernon had had to pay for its removal at a private hospital in London . The Weasleys didn’t have a car anymore; the old Ford Anglia they had owned was running wild at Hogwarts .
Uncle Vernon was pretending to read the paper, but his eyes were not moving . Harry was sure he was listening with all his might for the sound of an approaching car . Uncle Vernon, perspiring slightly in his suit, opened the front door, peered up and down the street, then withdrew his head quickly.
Harry hurried into the living room, looking terrified . Loud bangings and scrapings were coming from behind the Dursleys’ boarded-up fireplace . “Maybe Harry can hear us, Dad - maybe he’ll be able to let us out-” Harry jumped up .
"They can travel by fire - only you’ve blocked the fireplace – hang on -" Harry approached the fireplace and called through the boards . “Mr. Weasley, it’s Harry... the fireplace has been blocked up. You won’t be able to get through there.” “Damn!” said Mr. Wesley’s voice excitedly. “Oh no, Ron!” came Fred’s vocal, very sarcastically. “No, this is exactly where we wanted to end up.”
Mr. Weasley, Fred, George, and Ron had bright red hair . Uncle Vernon caught Aunt Petunia and hid behind Uncle Vernon . Words utterly failed Uncle Vernon. His best suit was covered in white dust .
Harry suspected that Fred and George were hoping for a glimpse of Dudley . Uncle Vernon’s face purpled once more, and Aunt Petunia started chewing her tongue again . Harry could see him itching to go and examine the television and video recorder .
Harry and Ron exchanged glances and quickly looked away from each other . Harry was quite sure that Mr. Weasley thought Dudley was quite as mad as the Dursleys thought he was .
Fred scrambled around, cramming them back into his pocket, then gave the Dursleys a cheery wave, then stepped forward, and walked right into the fire, saying “the Burrow!” Aunt Petunia gave a little shuddering gasp . Then, with a second whoosh, George had cried “the burrow!” and vanished too . Now Harry and Mr. Weasley alone remained .
Uncle Vernon's eyes darted to it once, before he said, very resentfully, “Good-bye, then.” “See you,” said Harry, putting one foot forward into the green flames, which felt pleasantly like warm breath . At that moment, however, a horrible gagging sound erupted behind him . Aunt Petunia hurled herself onto the ground beside Dudley, seized the end of his swollen tongue, and attempted to wrench it out
Uncle Vernon snatched a china figure from on top of the sideboard and threw it hard at him . “Harry, go! Just go!” Mr. Weasley shouted, causing the ornament to shatter in the blasted fireplace . The Dursleys’ Wizard Wheezes Harry spun faster and faster, elbows tucked tightly to his sides, blurred fireplaces flashing past him, until he started to feel sick .
Harry looked around and saw that Ron and George were sitting at the wooden table with two red-haired people Harry had never seen before . Charlie was built like the twins, shorter and stockier than Percy and Ron, who were both long and lanky . Harry knew that he worked for the wizarding bank, Gringotts, and that Bill had been Head Boy at Hogwarts .
Mr. Weasley looked angrier than Harry had ever seen him . “I just dropped it... It was his fault he went and ate it, I never told him to.” George asked eagerly .
Mrs. Weasley smiled at Harry, who grinned back, which made Ginny go scarlet . “Why don’t you show Harry where he’s sleeping, Ron?” said Hermione from the doorway . Then Harry and Ron edged out of the kitchen .
“We’ve been hearing explosions out of their room for ages, but we never thought they were actually making things,” said Ron . “Only, most of the stuff - well, all of it, really - was a bit dangerous,” said Ginny . "They didn’t get as many O.W.L.s as she expected,” said Harry .
Percy slammed his bedroom door shut as Harry, Hermione, and Ginny followed Ron up three flights of stairs . The room at the top of the house where Ron slept looked much as it had the last time Harry had come to stay . "Shut up, Pig," said Ron, edging his way between two of the four beds that had been squeezed into the room .
Pigwidgeon annoys Errol and Hermes . Harry knew Ron too well to take him seriously . He had moaned continually about his old rat, Scabbers .
Ron and Hermione had been so deeply involved in helping Sirius escape from the Ministry of Magic that they were almost as concerned about Harry’s godfather as he was . The four of them left Ron’s room and went back downstairs to find Mrs. Weasley alone in the kitchen, looking extremely bad-tempered . “We’re eating out in the garden,” she said when they came in .
Mrs. Weasley jabbed her wand at the cutlery drawer, which shot open . Harry and Ron both jumped out of the way as knives soared out of it, flew across the kitchen, and began chopping the potatoes . “I don’t know where we went wrong with them,” she said .
Bill and Charlie were making two battered old tables fly high above the lawn, smashing into each other, each attempting to knock the other’s out of the air . Fred and George were cheering, Ginny was laughing, and Hermione was hovering near the hedge, apparently torn between amusement and anxiety.
Harry and Hermione were settling themselves down to eat beneath a clear, deep-blue sky . At the far end of the table, Percy was telling his father all about his report on cauldron bottoms . “I like Ludo,” said Mr. Weasley dismissively, but how he ever got to be Head of Department .
"Oh Bertha's hopeless, all right," said Percy . "I hear she’s been shunted from department to department for years, much more trouble than she's worth... but all the same, Bagman ought to be trying to find her," heaved an impressive sigh and took a deep swig of elderflower wine .
Harry had been on the Gryffindor House Quidditch team ever since his first year at Hogwarts . Harry was feeling extremely well fed and at peace with the world as he watched several gnomes sprinting through the rosebushes . He said very quietly to Harry, “So - have you heard from Sirius lately?” Hermione looked around, listening closely .
Harry felt as though he had barely lain down to steep in Ron’s room when he was shaken awake by Mrs. Weasley . He felt around for his glasses, put them on, and sat up. It was still dark outside. Ron muttered indistinctly as his mother roused him.
Mr. Weasley looked up as the boys entered and spread his arms so that they could see his clothes more clearly . Harry knew that Apparating meant disappearing from one place and reappearing almost instantly in another .
The Department of Magical Transportation had to fine a couple of people the other day for Apparating without a license . “Er - splinched?” said Harry. “They left half of themselves behind,” said Mr. Weasley, now spooning treacle onto his porridge .
“We’ve got a bit of a walk,” said Harry. “No, no, that’s miles away,” said Mr. Weasley . “We only need to walk a short way. It’s very difficult for a large number of wizards to congregate without attracting Muggle attention,” Mr. Heasley said .
Fred shouted at his mother as she threw the toffees away . “No wonder you didn’t get more O.W.L.s!” Mrs. Weasley was still glowering .
Wizards are coming from all over the world . Some Apparate, but we have to set up safe points for them to appear . There have been two hundred Portkeys placed at strategic points around Britain .
Harry's hands and feet were freezing as they began to climb Stoatshead Hill . Each breath Harry took was sharp in his chest and his legs were starting to seize up when, at last, his feet found level ground . “Now we just need the Portkey,” said Mr. Weasley, replacing his glasses and wiping them on his sweater .
Cedric Diggory was Captain and Seeker of the Hufflepuff House Quidditch team at Hogwarts . He beat Gryffindor in the first match of the previous year . "Long walk, Arthur?" He asked. "Not too bad," said Mr. Weasley. "We live just on the other side of the village there. You?"
Fred and George were both scowling again . “I told you... it was an accident...” “Yes, but you didn’t fall off, did you?” roared Amos genially .
Harry felt as though a hook just behind his navel had been suddenly jerked irresistibly forward . His feet slammed into the ground; Ron staggered into him and he fell over . The Portkey hit the ground near his head with a heavy thud .
Basil wearily consulted his parchment list . “About a quarter of a mile’s walk over there, first field you come to. Diggory... second field... ask for Mr. Payne.” “Thanks, Basil,” said Mr. Weasley .
Harry corrected him in an undertone, uncomfortably aware of Mr. Roberts trying to catch every word . “You’re not the first one who’s had trouble with money,” said Mr. Weasley .
Harry recognized the symptoms of one who had just had his memory modified . The wizard in plus-fours accompanied them toward the gate to the campsite . He looked exhausted: His chin was blue with stubble and there were deep purple shadows under his eyes .
Harry Weasley trudged up the misty field between long rows of tents . Most looked almost ordinary; their owners had clearly tried to make them as Muggle-like as possible, but had slipped up by adding chimneys or bellpulls, or weather vanes . Halfway up the field stood an extravagant confection of striped silk like a miniature palace, with several live peacocks tethered at the entrance . A little farther on they passed a tent that had three
Harry had never been camping in his life; the Dursleys had never taken him on any kind of holiday, preferring to leave him with Mrs. Figg, an old neighbor . However, Mr. Weasley got thoroughly overexcited when it came to using the mallet, they finally managed to erect a pair of shabby two-man tents . All of them stood back to admire their handiwork .
Harry, Ron, and Hermione set off across the campsite with the kettle and saucepans . After a quick tour of the girls’ tent, they could see the city of tents that stretched in every direction . It was only just dawning on Harry how many witches and wizards there must be in the world .
Three African wizards sat in serious conversation, all wearing long white robes and roasting what looked like a rabbit on a bright purple fire . They walked into a patch of tents covered with a thick growth of shamrocks, so it looked as though small, oddly shaped hillocks had sprouted out of the earth . Then, from behind them, they heard their names .
Harry, Ron, and Hermione have been dangling all over their tents . The Bulgarian flag - white, green, and red - was fluttering in the breeze . "Let’s go and have a look," said Harry, pointing to a patch of tents upfield .
"I bought this in a Muggle shop," said old Archie in indignation . "Muggle women wear them, Archie, not the men, they wear these," Archie said . They were hailed by Ernie Macmillan, a Hufflepuff fourth year .
Harry laughed but didn’t voice the amazement he felt at hearing about other wizarding schools . He glanced at Hermione, who looked utterly unsurprised by the information . Mr. Weasley was having no success at all in lighting the fire .
Mr. Weasley kept up a running commentary for Harry’s and Hermione’s benefit . He’s with the Committee on Experimental Charms; he’s had those horns for a while now .
Ludo Bagman was wearing long Quidditch robes in thick horizontal stripes of bright yellow and black . He had the look of a powerfully built man gone slightly to seed . His nose was squashed (probably broken by a stray Bludger, Harry thought), but his round blue eyes, short blond hair, and rosy complexion made him look like a very overgrown schoolboy .
Ludo Bagman looked slightly disappointed, but recovered himself . "You don’t want to go showing Mr. Bagman rubbish like that," Percy hissed, but his boyish face shone with excitement .
Mr. Weasley looked on helplessly as Ludo Bagman whipped out a notebook and quill and began jotting down the twins’ names . “I’ll give you excellent odds on that one... We’ll add five Galleons for the funny wand, then, shall we...” said George, taking the slip of parchment Bagman handed him and tucking it away into the front of his robes .
Barty Crouch was a stiff, upright, elderly man, dressed in an impeccably crisp suit and tie . The parting in his short gray hair was almost unnaturally straight, and his narrow toothbrush mustache looked as though he trimmed it using a slide rule . “No thank you, Ludo,” said Crouch brightly, patting the ground beside him .
Percy sunk into a kind of halfbow that made him look like a hunchback . “Oh and I’ve been wanting a word with you too, Arthur,” said Mr. Crouch .
“Oh details!” said Bagman, waving the word away like a cloud of midges . “Ludo, we need to meet the Bulgarians, you know,” said Mr. Crouch sharply .
Salesmen were Apparating every few feet, carrying trays and pushing carts full of extraordinary merchandise . There were luminous rosettes - green for Ireland, red for Bulgaria - which were squealing the names of the players, pointed green hats bedecked with dancing shamrocks, Bulgarian scarves adorned with lions that really roared .
The Quidditch World Cup Clutching their purchases, Mr. Weasley in the lead, they all hurried into the wood, following the lantern-lit trail . They could hear the sounds of thousands of people moving around them, shouts and laughter, snatches of singing .
Muggle Repelling Charms has been working on it all year . Every time Muggles have got anywhere near here all year, they’ve suddenly remembered urgent appointments and had to dash away again... bless them . The stairs into the stadium were carpeted in rich purple . They clambered upward with the rest of the crowd .
The Bluebottle: A Broom for All the Family - safe, reliable, and with Built-in Anti-Burgler Buzzer... Gladrags Wizardwear - London, Paris, Hogsmeade... Harry tore his eyes away from the sign and looked over his shoulder to see who else was sharing the box with them . The tiny creature, whose legs were so short they stuck out in front of it on the chair, was wearing a tea towel draped like a toga .
“You is surely Harry Potter!” she said, lowering her hands very slightly and looking awestruck . “What’s wrong with him?” said Harry, taken aback .
“House-elves is not supposed to have fun, Harry Potter,” said Winky firmly . “Why’s he sent you up here, if he knows you don’t like heights?” said Harry, frowning .
Mr. Weasley kept shaking hands with people who were obviously very important wizards . When Cornelius Fudge arrived, Percy bowed so low that his glasses fell off and shattered . Highly embarrassed, he repaired them with his wand and thereafter remained in his seat .
Harry and Draco Malfoy had been enemies ever since their first journey to Hogwarts . A pale boy with a pointed face and white-blond hair,Draco greatly resembled his father . Mr. Weasley's cold gray eyes swept over Mr. Heasley, and then up and down the row .
Mr. Malfoy's eyes had returned to Hermione, who went slightly pink, but stared determinedly back at him . Harry knew exactly what was making Mr Malfay’s lip curl like that . Draco shot Harry, Ron, and Hermimione one contemptuous look, then settled himself between his mother and father .
Thousands of flags waved, adding discordant national anthems to the racket . The huge blackboard opposite them was wiped clear of its last message . He suddenly whipped off his glasses and polished them hurriedly on his robes . But a hundred veela were now gliding out onto the field, and Harry’s question was answered for him .
Harry was standing up, and one of his legs was resting on the wall of the box . Next to him, Ron was frozen in an attitude that looked as though he were about to dive from a springboard . The crowd didn’t want the veela to go; Harry would be supporting Bulgaria . Mr. Weasley, smiling slightly, leaned over to Ron and tugged the hat out of his hands .
a rainbow arced suddenly across the field, connecting the two balls of light . The crowd oooohed and aaahed, as though at a fireworks display . Now the rainbow faded and the balls merged; they had formed a great shimmering shamrock .
Viktor Krum was thin, dark, and sallow-skinned, with a large curved nose and thick black eyebrows . It was hard to believe he was only eighteen . Harry spun a small dial on the side of his Omnioculars back to normal .
Harry was pressing his Omnioculars so hard to his glasses that they were cutting into the bridge of his nose . The speed of the players was incredible - the Chasers were throwing the Quaffle to one another so fast that Bagman only had time to say their names . “Ten zero to Ireland!” “What?” roared Bagman, and the stadium shuddered .
The veela were watching the leprechauns from the sidelines sulkily . Harry spun his speed dial back to normal as play resumed . Ireland had scored twice more, bringing their lead to thirty-zero .
Krum and Lynch plummeted through the center of the Chasers, so fast it looked like they had just jumped from airplanes without parachutes . Harry followed their descent through his Omnioculars, squinting to see where the Snitch was – “They’re going to crash!” screamed Hermione next to Harry . Lynch hit the ground with a dull thud that could be heard throughout the stadium .
Harry turned Omnioculars back to normal and focused them on Krum . He saw Krum’s face contorted with concentration as he pulled out of the dive just in time . Lynch was being revived by mediwizards with cups of potion .
The veela on the other side of the field leapt to their feet, tossed their hair angrily, and started to dance again . As one, the Weasley boys and Harry stuffed their fingers into their ears, but Hermione, who hadn’t bothered, was soon tugging on Harry’s arm . “Now, we can’t have that!” said Ludo Bagman, though he sounded highly amused .
The Bulgarian Beaters, Volkov and Vulchanov, landed on either side of Mostafa and began arguing furiously with him, gesticulating toward the leprechauns . Dimitrov shot straight at Moran, who had the Quaffle, nearly knocking her off her broom . “Foul!” echoed the Irish supporters as one, standing up in a great wave of green .
Levski had the Quaffle, now Dimitrov - The Irish Beater Quigley swung heavily at a passing Bludger, and hit it as hard as possible toward Krum, who did not duck quickly enough . There was a deafening groan from the crowd; Krum’s nose looked broken, there was blood everywhere, but Hassan Mostafa didn’t blow his whistle . Harry wanted someone to realize that Krum was injured; even though 
Irish supporters rose in another great wave of green, screaming their Seeker on... but Krum was on his tail . “They’re going to crash!” shrieked Hermione. “Lynch is!” yelled Harry. “He’s got it – Krum’s Got it - it’s all over!” shouted Harry .
“He ended it when Ireland were a hundred and sixty points ahead, the idiot!” Harry shouted back over all the noise . “He was very brave, wasn’t he?” Hermione said, leaning forward to watch Krum land .
Harry saw two panting wizards carrying a vast golden cup into the box . They handed to Cornelius Fudge, who was still looking disgruntled that he’d been using sign language all day for nothing . The crowd below was applauding appreciatively; Harry could see thousands of Omniocular lenses flashing and winking in their direction .
Mr. Weasley implored Fred and George as they made their way slowly down the purple-carpeted stairs . They were soon caught up in the crowds now flooding out of the stadium and back to their campsites . Raucous singing was borne toward them on the night air as they retraced their steps along the lantern-lit path .
Harry, who was on a top bunk above Ron, lay staring up at the canvas ceiling of the tent, watching the glow of an occasional leprechaun lantern flying overhead . He imagined the sensation of hearing a hundred-thousand-strong crowd roar, as Ludo Bagman’s voice echoed throughout the stadium, “I give you... Potter!” Harry saw himself in robes that had his name on the back .
A crowd of wizards, tightly packed and moving together with wands pointing straight upward, was marching slowly across the field . It was as though the masked wizards on the ground were puppeteers, and the people above them were marionettes operated by invisible strings . Tents crumpled and fell as the marching crowd swelled . Once or twice Harry saw one of the marchers blast a tent out of his way .
Mr. Weasley shouted over all the noise, rolling up his sleeves . "You lot - get into the woods, and stick together. I’ll come and fetch you when we’vesorted this out!" Bill, Charlie, and Percy were already sprinting away toward the oncoming marchers . The crowd beneath the Roberts family was coming closer .
Draco Malfoy was standing alone, leaning against a tree, looking utterly relaxed . Harry knew he would never have dared say in front of Mrs. Weasley . He nodded at Hermione, and at the same moment, a blast like a bomb sounded from the campsite .
“Oh come on,” said Hermione, with a disgusted look at Harry . “Keep that big bushy head down, Granger,” sneered Malfoy . „Well, with any luck, the Ministry will catch him!” said Ron hotly .
Ron and Hermione raised their wands high enough to spread the narrow beams of light farther on the ground . “Maybe it fell out of your pocket when we were running?” Ron suggested anxiously . The house-elf was fighting her way out of a clump of bushes nearby .
“It’s slavery, that’s what it is!” said Hermione indignantly. “Well, the elves are happy, aren’t they?” Ron said . “I’m a dragon killer for the Committee for the Disposal of Dangerous Creatures”
A third young wizard, whose pimples were visible even by the dim, silvery light of the veela, now cut in, “I’m about to become the youngest ever Minister of Magic, I am.” He recognized the pimply wizard: His name was Stan Shunpike, and he was in fact a conductor on the triple-decker Knight Bus. He turned to tell Ron this, but Ron’s face had gone oddly slack, and next second Ron was ye
The Wimbourne Wasps won the league three times in a row while he was with them . He took his small figure of Krum out of his pocket, set it down on the ground, and watched it walk around . "Imagine if your dad catches Lucius Malfoy," said Hermione nervously .
It was too dark to see very far, but he could sense someone standing just beyond the range of his vision . “What the -?” gasped Ron as he sprang to his feet again, staring up at the thing that had appeared . The only possible cause was the sudden appearance of the skull, which had now risen high enough to illuminate the entire wood like some grisly neon sign .
“It’s the Dark Mark, Harry!” Hermione moaned, pulling him as hard as she could . He whirled around, and in an instant, he registered one fact: Each of these wizards had his wand out . There was a blinding series of flashes and Harry felt the hair on his head ripple as a powerful wind had swept the clearing .
“We didn’t do anything!” said Harry, who was rubbing his elbow and looking indignantly at his father . “Do not lie, sir!” shouted Mr. Crouch . His wand was still pointing directly at Ron, and his eyes were popping .
“You’ve got someone here! Unconscious! It’s - but - blimey!” shouted Mr. Crouch . They heard snapping twigs, the rustling of leaves, and crunching footsteps . Mr. Diggory deposited his elf on the ground at his feet .
Ludo Bagman Apparated right next to Mr. Weasley . Looking breathless and disorientated, he spun on the spot, goggling upward at the emerald-green skull . “Where have you been, Barty?” said Mr. Crouch .
“I found her holding one, Ludo. If it’s all right with you, Mr. Crouch, I think we should hear what she’s got to say for herself.” Mr. Diggory raised his own wand, pointed it at Winky, and said, “Ennervate!” Winky stirred feebly . Harry could see the floating skull reflected twice in her enormous, glassy eyes .
“I dropped it!” said Mr. Diggory in disbelief . “Is Harry Potter likely to conjure the Dark Mark?” “Er - of course not,” mumbled Mr. Weasley .
Winky trembled and shook her head frantically, her ears flapping, as Mr. Diggory raised his own wand again and placed it tip to tip with Harry’s . “Prior Incantato!” roared Mr. Gagory with a kind of savage triumph .
“You have come very close to accusing the two people in this clearing who are least likely to conjure that Mark!” muttered Mr. Crouch . “I trust you remember the many proofs I have given, over a long career, that I despise and detest the Dark Arts and those who practice them?” he shouted .
Mr. Diggory looked as though he didn’t think much of this suggestion at all, but it was clear to Harry that Mr. Crouch was such an important member of the Ministry that he did not dare refuse him . “You may rest assured that she will be punished,” Mr. Krouch added coldly .
Mr. Crouch was surveying Winky as though she were something filthy and rotten that was contaminating his over-shined shoes . There was a very nasty silence, which was ended by Mr. Weasley, who said quietly, “Well, I think I’ll take my lot back to the tent, if nobody’s got any objections. Amos, that wand’s told us all it can - if Harry could have it back, please -” Mr
Harry, Ron, and Hermione entered after him . Charlie had a large rip in his shirt, and Percy was sporting a bloody nose .
“Did you get them, Dad?” said Bill, Charlie, and Percy together . “Harry’s wand?” said Fred. “Mr. Crouch is quite right to get rid of an elf like that!” said Fred .
“I don’t get it,” said Mr. Weasley quietly . “The terror it inspired... you have no idea, you’re too young. Just picture coming home and finding the Dark Mark hovering over your house, and knowing what you're about to find inside...” He said, “Well, it didn’t help us tonight, whoever conjured it. It scared the Death Eaters away the moment they saw it .
Harry flinched – like most of the wizarding world, the Weasleys always avoided saying Voldemort’s name . “What were You-Know-Who’s supporters up to, levitating Muggles? I mean, what was the point?” he replied .
Lord Voldemort’s mark had appeared in the sky for the first time in thirteen years . Mr. Weasley thought of the letter he had written to Sirius before leaving Privet Drive . It was a long time after Charlie’s snores filled the tent that Harry didzed off .
Mr. Weasley had a hurried discussion with Basil, the keeper of the Portkeys . They joined the queue, and were able to take an old tire back to Stoatshead Hill . As they rounded the corner and the Burrow came into view, a cry echoed along the lane .
Mr. Weasley scanned the front page while Percy looked over his shoulder . “That woman’s got it in for the Ministry of Magic!” said Mr. Heasley, his eyes widening behind his glasses as he reached the bottom .
A Ministry official emerged some time after the appearance of the Dark Mark alleging that nobody had been hurt, but refusing to give any more information . Mr. Weasley heaved a deep sigh, handing the paper to Percy . “Mr. Crouch will need all hands on deck. And I can give him my cauldron report in person.” He bustled out of the kitchen .
Ron’s and Hermione’s reactions were almost exactly as Harry had imagined them back in his bedroom on Privet Drive . “I’m sure he wasn’t there, was he? You-Know-Who? I mean - last time your scar kept hurting, he was at Hogwarts,” said Harry . The Death Eaters are on the march, and Voldemort’s sign’s up in the sky again.”
The Dark Lord would rise again... greater and more terrible than ever before... and he’d manage it because his servant was going to go back to him... and Wormtail escaped . There was a silence in which Ron fidgeted absentmindedly with a hole in his Chudley Cannons bedspread . “I bet Sirius’ll know what to do!” said Harry .
Hermione left the room, muttering something that sounded very much like “Boys” neither Mr. Weasley nor Percy was at home much over the following week . “I’ve been putting out fires all week. People keep sending Howlers, and of course, if you don’t open a Howler straight away, it explodes,” asked Ginny .
Mrs. Weasley glanced at the grandfather clock in the corner . There were no numerals around the face, but descriptions of where each family member might be . Eight of the hands were currently pointing to the “home” position .
Harry was polishing his Firebolt, the kit Hermione had given him for his thirteenth birthday open at his feet . Fred and George were sitting in a far corner, quills out, talking in whispers . “Don’t be ridiculous, you’re still on holiday,” said Mrs. Weasley shrewdly .
“I told Bagman he should have sent someone to look for her ages ago.” “Mr. Crouch has been saying it for weeks and weeks,” said Mr. Weasley irritably . “I thought we were all agreed that that elf, while irresponsible, did not conjure the Mark?” said Hermione .
Pigwidgeon began twittering and zooming around his cage when they entered . The sight of the half-packed trunks seemed to have sent him into a frenzy of excitement . He heaved a pile of parcels onto Harry’s camp bed and dropped a load of socks next to it .
Mrs. Weasley entered, carrying an armful of freshly laundered Hogwarts robes . "Of course I haven’t," said Ron, handing it out to her . “I’m not wearing that, no way,” said Ron in disbelief .
Harry, Ron, Fred, and George had just reached the first-floor landing on their way down to breakfast . Mr. Weasley came clattering past with his robes on back-to-front and hurtled out of sight . Harry closed his eyes hard and opened them again to make sure they were working properly .
Amos Diggory’s head was sitting in the middle of the flames like a large, bearded egg . It was talking very fast, completely unperturbed by the sparks flying around it . Mrs. Weasley pushes a piece of parchment, a bottle of ink, and a crumpled quill into Mr. Wesley’s hands .
“Might be a caution,” said Mr. Diggory, still writing very fast . “All right, I’m off,” Mr. Weasley said, and he stuffed the parchment with his notes on it into his pocket and dashed out of the kitchen again .
Mr. Weasley hurried good-byes to Bill, Charlie, Percy, and the twins . “Molly, are you going to be all right taking the kids to King’s Cross?” she said. “You just look after Mad-Eye, we’ll be fine.”
Bill and Charlie decided to come and see everyone off at King’s Cross station . Percy, apologizing profusely, said that he really needed to get to work . Mrs. Weasley had ordered three ordinary Muggle taxis to take them into London .
Harry, Ron, and Hermione went first; they leaned casually against the barrier, chatting unconcernedly, and slid sideways through it . Pigwidgeon became noisier than ever in response to the hooting of many owls through the mist . They then hopped back down onto the platform to say good-bye to Mrs. Weasley, Bill, and Charlie . “I might be seeing you all sooner than you think,” said Fred keenly
“Yeah, I sort of wish I were back at Hogwarts this year,” said George impatiently . "You’re going to have an interesting year," said Bill . “A bit of what?” said Ron .
Hermione whispered suddenly, pressing her finger to her lips and pointing toward the compartment next to theirs . Father says Durmstrang takes a far more sensible line than Hogwarts about the Dark Arts .
“I think Durmstrang must be somewhere in the far north,” said Harry . “Somewhere very cold, because they’ve got fur capes as part of their uniforms”
Seamus Finnigan, Dean Thomas, and Neville Longbottom looked in on them as the afternoon progressed . Seamus was still wearing his Irish rosette but in a very feeble and exhausted sort of way . Neville listened jealously to the others’ conversation as they relived Cup match .
Draco Malfoy had appeared in the doorway . Behind him stood Crabbe and Goyle, his enormous, thuggish cronies . “Don’t remember asking you to join us,” said Harry coolly .
Malfoy beckoned to Crabbe and Goyle, and the three disappeared . Ron got to his feet and slammed the sliding compartment door so hard behind them that the glass shattered . “Ron!” said Hermione reproachfully, and she pulled out her wand .
Hermione bundled up Crookshanks in her cloak and Ron left his dress robes over Pigwidgeon as they left the train . The rain was coming down so thick and fast that it was as though buckets of ice-cold water were being emptied repeatedly over their heads . “See yeh at the feast if we don’ drown!” said Harry fervently .
Harry, Ron, Hermione, and Neville jumped down from their carriage and dashed up the steps too, looking up only when they were safely inside the cavernous, torch-lit entrance hall . A large, red, water-filled balloon had dropped from out of the ceiling onto Ron’s head and exploded . It burst at Harry’s feet, sending a wave of cold water over his sneakers into his socks . “PEEVES!” yelled an angry voice .
Hermione gasped, massaging her throat . “Peeves, get down here NOW!” barked Professor McGonagall . He aimed another bomb at a group of fifth-year girls .
The Great Hall looked its usual splendid self, decorated for the start-of-term feast . Harry, Ron, and Hermione walked past the Slytherins, the Ravenclaws, and the Hufflepuffs . The Sorting of the new students into Houses took place at the start of every school year, but by an unlucky combination of circumstances, Harry hadn’t been present at one since his own .
Hermione looked up at the staff table . There seemed to be rather more empty seats there than usual . Harry’s favorite by far had been Professor Lupin, who resigned last year .
Professor McGonagall was leading a long line of first years up to the top of the Great Hall . They appeared to have swum across the lake rather than sailed . All of them were shivering with a combination of cold and nerves as they filed along the staff table .
Bold Gryffindor, from wild moor, Fair Ravenclaw, from glen, Sweet Hufflepuff, from valley broad, Shrewd Slytherin, from fin . Each of these founders Formed their own house, for each Did value different virtues In the ones they had to teach . The Great Hall rang with applause as the Sorting Hat finished.
Professor McGonagall was unrolling a large scroll of parchment . “When I call out your name, you will put on the hat and sit on the stool,” she said .
Tiny Dennis Creevey tripped over Hagrid’s moleskin as he sat down at the end of the staff table . Harry, Ron, and Hermione knew Hagrid to possess a very kind nature . The rip at the brim opened wide— - “GRYFFINDOR!” the hat shouted .
“We don’t want to break our winning streak, do we?” Gryffindor had won the Inter-House Championship for the last three years in a row . Professor McGonagall picked up the hat and the stool and carried them away . “About time,” said Ron, seizing his knife and fork .
The Bloody Baron was the Slytherin ghost, a gaunt and silent specter covered in silver bloodstains . He was the only person at Hogwarts who could really control Peeves . “I’ve never seen one!” said Nearly Headless Nick .
Nearly Headless Nick chortled so much that his ruff slipped and his head flopped off . “They get holidays, don’t they? And - and sick leave, and pensions, and everything?” Hermione said, pushing his head back onto his shoulders and securing it once more .
Albus Dumbledore has asked him to tell you that the list of objects forbidden inside the castle has this year been extended to include Screaming Yo-yos, Fanged Frisbees, and EverBashing Boomerangs . The full list comprises some four hundred and thirty-seven items, I believe, and can be viewed in Mr. Filch’s office, if anybody would like to check it .
A man stood in the Great Hall, leaning upon a long staff, shrouded in a traveling cloak . Every head swiveled toward the stranger, suddenly brightly illuminated by a fork of lightning that flashed across the ceiling . A dull clunk echoed through the Hall on his every other step . He reached the end of the top table, turned right, and limped heavily toward Dumbledore .
The stranger shook his mane of dark gray hair out of his face, pulled a plate of sausages toward him, raised it to what was left of his nose, and began to eat . His normal eye was fixed upon the sausages, but the blue eye was still darting restlessly around in its socket . “May I introduce our new Defense Against the Dark Arts teacher?” said Dumbledore brightly into the silence .
The Triwizard Tournament will be taking place at Hogwarts this year . Mad-Eye Moody's arrival suddenly broke . Professor McGonagall cleared her throat loudly .
Hermione whispered excitedly, looking alarmed . Harry himself was more interested in hearing about the tournament than in worrying about deaths . "There have been several attempts over the centuries to reinstate the tournament," Harry said .
"Eager though I know all of you will be to bring the Triwizard Cup to Hogwarts," Dumbledore said . Only students who are of age - that is to say, 17 years or older - will be allowed to put forward their names for consideration . "I will personally be ensuring that no underage student hoodwinks our impartial judge into making them Hog Warts champion," he said. "We’re seventeen in April, why can’t we
“The champions’ll get to do all sorts of stuff you’d never be allowed to do normally. And a thousand Galleons prize money!” “Come on,” said Hermione, “we’ll be the only ones left here if you don’t move.” “Who’s this impartial judge who’s going to decide who the champions are?” said Harry. “I reckon a couple of drops of Aging Potion might do it, George...”
Neville’s foot had sunk right through a step halfway up the staircase . There were many trick stairs at Hogwarts; it was second nature to most of the older students to jump this particular step . Harry and Ron seized him under the armpits and pulled him out .
Harry, Ron, and Neville got into their pajamas and into bed . It was extremely comfortable, lying there in bed and listening to the storm raging outside . He had hoodwinked the impartial judge into believing he was seventeen... he had become Hogwarts champion... He was standing on the grounds, his arms raised in triumph in front of the whole school, all of whom were applauding and screaming...
Harry looked up, but there was no sign of white among the mass of brown and gray . A large tawny owl soared down to Neville Longbottom and deposited a parcel into his lap - Neville forgot to pack something . Professor Sprout showed the class the ugliest plants Harry had ever seen .
a large amount of thick yellowish-green liquid burst forth, which smelled strongly of petrol . They caught it in the bottles as Professor Sprout had indicated, and by the end of the lesson had collected several pints . “This’ll keep Madam Pomfrey happy,” said Professor, stopping the last bottle with a cork .
“Mornin’!” Hagrid said, grinning at Harry, Ron, and Hermione . “Be’er wait fer the Slytherins, they won’t want ter miss this - Blast-Ended Skrewts!” “Come again?” said Ron. “Eurgh!” squealed Lavender Brown .
Hagrid hurried over to Dean Thomas, looking anxious . “I reckon they’re the males... The females’ve got sorta sucker things on their bellies... I think they might be ter suck blood.”
Harry and Ron grinned at Hagrid, who gave them a furtive smile from behind his bushy beard . Hagrid loved monstrous creatures, the more lethal, the better . “Well, at least the skrewts are small,” said Ron as they made their way back up to the castle for lunch an hour later .
Harry and Ron walked through the mass of occupied chintz chairs and poufs that cluttered the room . The familiar sweet perfume spreading from the fire met their nostrils as they emerged at the top of the stepladder . “Good day,” said the misty voice of Professor Trelawney right behind Harry, making him jump .
Hermione was right, Harry thought irritably, Professor Trelawney really was an old fraud . She had long since come to the conclusion that her brand of fortune-telling was really no more than lucky guesswork and a spooky manner .
“Saturn, dear, the planet Saturn!” said Professor Trelawney . “No,” said Harry, “I was born in midwinter?” Half an hour later, each of them had been given a complicated circular chart . It was dull work, requiring much consultation of timetables and calculation of angles .
“I want it ready to hand in next Monday, and no excuses!” said Professor McGonagall . “That’ll take all weekend, that will...” said Hermione brightly. “Well, bully for Professor Vector,” said Ron .
Arnold Weasley was charged with possession of a flying car two years ago . He appeared to have rushed to the aid of “Mad-Eye” Moody, the aged ex-Auror who retired from the Ministry when no longer able to tell the difference between a handshake and attempted murder . Mr. Moody had once again raised a false alarm .
Professor Moody was limping down the marble staircase . His wand was out and it was pointing right at a pure white ferret . There was a terrified silence in the entrance hall .
“No!” shrieked Professor McGonagall, the books spilling out of her arms . Draco Malfoy had reappeared, lying in a heap on the floor with his sleek blond hair all over his now brilliantly pink face .
Malfoy looked malevolently up at Moody and muttered something in which the words “my father” were distinguishable . “Well, I know your father of old, boy... You tell him that from me... Now, your Head of House’ll be Snape, will it?” he growled Moody resentfully . Professor McGonagall stared anxiously after them for a few moments, then waved her wand at her fallen books, causing them to soar up
"No sooner had she gone than her seat was taken by Fred Weasley," said George . "Never had a lesson like it," said Fred, George, and Lee Jordan .
Ron to Harry as they watched Hermione teaching Neville a Scouring Charm to remove the frog guts from under his fingernails . It was common knowledge that Snape really wanted the Dark Arts job, and he had now failed to get it for the fourth year running . The Gryffindor fourth years were looking forward to Moody’s first lesson so much that they arrived early on Thursday lunchtime and queued up outside his classroom .
Moody shook his long mane of grizzled gray hair out of his twisted and scarred face . He began to call out names, his normal eye moving steadily down the list . There was a general murmur of assent . Moody’s magical eye spun around to stare at Ron .
A wizard who’s about to put an illegal curse on you isn’t going to tell you what he’s going to do . You need to be alert and watchful, Moody pointed at Ron, though his magical eye was still fixed on Lavender . “Ah, yes,” said Moody appreciatively .
Harry felt Ron recoil slightly next to him - Ron hated spiders . He reached into the jar, caught one of the spiders and held it in the palm of his hand so that they could all see it . The spider leapt from Moody’s hand and began to swing backward and forward as though on a trapeze . Everyone was laughing - everyone except Moody .
Neville looked surprised at his own daring. “Yes?” said Moody, his magical eye rolling right over to fix on Neville . “There’s one - the Cruciatus Curse,” said Neville in a small but distinct voice .
Moody raised his wand, and Harry felt a sudden thrill of foreboding . “Reducio,” Moody muttered, and the spider shrank back to its proper size .
Harry felt his face redden as Moody’s eyes looked into his own . Harry stared at the blank blackboard as though fascinated by it, but not really seeing it at all . How Voldemort had killed Harry’s father first, how she had begged him to kill her instead .
Harry was speaking again, from a great distance, it seemed to Harry . With a massive effort, he pulled himself back to the present and listened to what Moody was saying . “Avada Kedavra’s a curse that needs a powerful bit of magic behind it - you could all get your wands out now and point them at me and say the words, and I doubt I’d get so much as a nosebleed. But that doesn’t matter. I’m not
Harry and Ron were talking about the lesson, but he hadn’t found it very entertaining . Neville was standing alone, halfway up the passage, staring at the stone wall opposite him with the same horrified, wide-eyed look he had worn when Moody demonstrated the Cruciatus Curse . “Oh yes, I’m fine,” Neville gabbled in the same unnaturally high voice .
Moody’s blue eye quivered slightly in its socket as it surveyed Harry . Neville looked pleadingly at Harry, Ron, and Hermione, but they didn’t say anything . “I don’t know,” said Ron to Harry as they set off for the Great Hall .
The Fat Lady swung forward to reveal the entrance hole, and they climbed into the Gryffindor common room . They went up to the dormitory to fetch their books and charts, to find Neville there alone, sitting on his bed, reading . There was a faint note of pride in his voice that Harry had rarely heard there before .
“I am likely to develop a cough, owing to the unlucky conjunction of Mars and Jupiter.” “You know her - just put in loads of misery, she’ll lap it up.” “Yeah, you will be,” said Ron darkly . “You’re seeing the skrewts again on Monday,” said Harry .
Harry saw Fred and George sitting together against the opposite wall, heads together, quills out, poring over a single piece of parchment . There was something secretive about the way they were working on the piece, and Harry was reminded of how they had sat together writing something back at the Burrow . He had thought that it was another order form for Wizard Wheezes, but it didn’t look like that this time .
“You seem to be drowning twice,” said Hermione . “How dare you!” said Ron, in mock outrage. “We’ve been working like house-elves here!” said Harry .
“I’ve been researching it thoroughly in the library. Elf enslavement goes back centuries. I can’t believe no one’s done anything about it before now.” “Our short-term aims” include changing the law about nonwand use, and trying to get an elf into the Department for the Regulation and Control of Magical Creatures . “And how do we do all this?” Harry asked .
Sirius Harry looked up at Ron and Hermione, who stared back at him . “He’s coming back?” said Ron, looking perplexed. “Harry - what’s up?” Hedwig said furiously .
Harry slamming his fist on the table so that Hedwig landed on the back of Ron’s chair, hooting indignantly . “I’m going to bed,” said Harry shortly, cuffing him around the head with her outstretched wing as she went . If Sirius came back, it would be his, Harry’s, fault .
Harry He woke with a plan fully formed in his mind, as though his sleeping brain had been working on it all night . Here he took a piece of parchment from the table upon which his Divination homework still lay and wrote the following letter: Dear Sirius, I reckon I just imagined my scar hurting, I was half asleep when I wrote to you last time . There’s no point coming back, everything’s fine here. Don’t worry about me, my head feels completely normal .
Harry watched her fly out of sight with the familiar feeling of unease back in his stomach . He had been so sure Sirius’s reply would alleviate his worries rather than increasing them . Harry did his best not to worry about Sirius over the next couple of weeks .
Harry and Ron grinned at each other and put the Imperius Curse upon them . They knew Hermione would rather eat bubotuber pus than miss such an important lesson . Moody raised his wand, pointed it at Harry and said, “Imperio!” It was the most wonderful feeling .
Harry bent his knees obediently, preparing to spring . Jump onto the desk... No, I don’t think I will, thanks, said the other voice . The next thing Harry felt was considerable pain . Harry had both jumped and tried to prevent himself from jumping .
Professor McGonagall explained why, when the class gave a particularly loud groan at the amount of Transfiguration homework she had assigned . “You are now entering a most important phase of your magical education!” said Dean Thomas indignantly . Hermione, who turned rather pink again, seemed to be trying not to look too pleased with herself .
Professor Snape was forcing them to research antidotes . Even Hagrid was adding to their workload . The Blast-Ended Skrewts were growing at a remarkable pace . Hagrid suggested that they come down to his hut on alternate evenings .
TRIWIZARD TOURNAMENT THE DELEGATIONS FROM BEAUXBATONS AND DURMSTRANG WILL BE ARRIVING AT 6 O’CLOCK ON FRIDAY THE 30th OF OCTOBER . STUDENTS WILL RETURN THEIR BAGS AND BOOKS TO THEIR DORMITORIES AND ASSEMBLE IN FRONT OF THE CASTLE TO GREET OUR GUESTS BEFORE THE WELCOMING FE
Harry noticed that the castle seemed to be undergoing an extra-thorough cleaning . The suits of armor were suddenly gleaming and moving without squeaking . Professor McGonagall barked at the end of one particularly difficult lesson .
Enormous silk banners hung from the walls, each representing a Hogwarts House . Harry, Ron, and Hermione sat beside Fred and George at the Gryffindor table . “What’s a bummer?” said Fred, looking irritated at the interruption .
Harry and Hermione had paid two Sickles for a S.P.E.W. badge, but they had only done it to keep her quiet . Harry and Ron had been badgering Harry since, then to persuade others to do the same .
Some people had paid up just to stop Hermione from glowering at them . Some seemed mildly interested in what she had to say, but were reluctant to take a more active role in campaigning . Many regarded the whole thing as a joke .
I want you to keep me posted on everything that’s going on at Hogwarts . Don’t use Hedwig, keep changing owls, and don’t worry about me, just watch out for yourself . “Hedwig’ll attract too much attention,” said Hermione at once .
Harry, standing between Ron and Hermione in the fourth row from the front, saw Dennis Creevey positively shivering with anticipation among the other first years . “How, then? Broomsticks?” Harry suggested, looking up at the starry sky. “I don’t think so... not from that far away...” “A Portkey?” Ron suggested .
Harry Creevey saw a gigantic horse-drawn carriage, the size of a large house, soaring toward them . The front three rows of students drew backward as the carriage hurtled ever lower, coming in to land at a tremendous speed . A second later, the carriage landed too, bouncing upon its vast wheels .
Harry had only seen one person as large as this woman in his life, and that was Hagrid . She was revealed to have a handsome, olive-skinned face; large, black, liquid-looking eyes; and a rather beaky nose . Her hair was drawn back in a shining knob at the base of her neck .
Harry, whose attention had been focused entirely upon Madame Maxime, now noticed that about a dozen boys and girls, all, by the look of them, in their late teens, had emerged from the carriage . A few had wrapped scarves and shawls around their heads . They were staring up at Hogwarts with apprehensive looks on their faces .
Seamus Finnigan said, leaning around Lavender and Parvati to address Harry and Ron . “Maybe they’ve escaped,” said Ron hopefully . "Imagine that lot loose on the grounds...” said Hermione .
Professor Karkaroff was leading them up to the castle wearing cloaks of some kind of shaggy, matted fur . When he stepped into the light pouring from the front doors of the castle they saw that he was tall and thin like Dumbledore, but his white hair was short, and his goatee did not entirely hide his rather weak chin .
Harry saw a prominent curved nose and thick black eyebrows . He didn’t need the punch on the arm Ron gave him, or the hiss in his ear, to recognize that profile . “Harry - it’s Krum!” Ron said, in a stunned voice .
Viktor Krum and his fellow Durmstrang students had settled themselves at the Slytherin table . Harry could see Malfoy, Crabbe, and Goyle looking very smug about this .
The Durmstrang students were pulling off their heavy furs and looking up at the starry black ceiling with expressions of interest . Harry was surprised to see that he added four chairs, two on either side of Dumbledore’s . When all the students had entered the Hall, the staff entered .
The Great Hall seemed somewhat more crowded than usual, even though there were barely twenty additional students there . Now that they had removed their furs, the Durmstrang students were revealed to be wearing robes of a deep bloodred . It was the girl from Beauxbatons who had laughed during Dumbledore’s speech .
"Yeah, have it," said Harry, pushing the dish toward the girl . The sound seemed to jog Ron back to his senses . "Of course she isn’t!” said Hermione tartly .
Harry felt a slight thrill of excitement, wondering what was coming . There was a smattering of polite applause for Mr. Ludo Bagman . Bartemius Crouch did not smile or wave when his name was announced .
“Mr. Bagman and Mr. Crouch have worked tirelessly over the last few months on the arrangements for the Triwizard Cup,” said Dumbledore . The champions will be chosen by an impartial selector: the Goblet of Fire .
Dumbledore closed the casket and placed the goblet carefully on top of it . It would be clearly visible to everyone in the Hall . Tomorrow night, Halloween, it will return the names of the three it has judged most worthy to represent their schools .
Fred Weasley said, his eyes glinting, as they all made their way across the Hall to the doors into the entrance hall . “But I don’t think anyone under seventeen will stand a chance,” said Hermione, “we just haven’t learned enough...” “You’ll try and get in, won’t you, Harry?” Harry thought briefly of Dumbledore’s insistence that nobody under seventeen should submit their name, but then the wonderful picture of himself winning the Triwi
Professor Karkaroff turned his head back to Harry and stared at him as though he couldn’t believe his eyes . Behind their headmaster, the Durmstrang students came to a halt too . Mad-Eye Moody was standing there, leaning heavily on his staff .
Harry, Ron, and Hermione were not alone in rising much earlier than they did on weekends . When they went down into the entrance hall, they saw about twenty people milling around it, some of them eating toast, all examining the Goblet of Fire . A thin golden line had been traced on the floor, forming a circle ten feet around it in every direction .
Harry watched as Fred pulled a slip of parchment out of his pocket bearing the words Fred Weasley - Hogwarts . Then, with the eyes of every person in the entrance hall upon him, he took a great breath and stepped over the line . Fred and George were hurled out of the golden circle as though they had been thrown by an invisible shotputter .
Harry led the way over to Dean and Seamus, who were discussing those Hogwarts students who might be entering . “There’s a rumor going around that Warrington got up early and put his name in,” Dean told Harry . "We can’t have a Slytherin champion!” said Seamus contemptuously .
Madame Maxime entered the hall behind her students and organized them into a line . As each name entered the fire, it turned briefly red and emitted sparks . “What d’you reckon’ll happen to the ones who aren’t chosen?” Ron asked Harry .
A loud rattling noise behind them announced Hermione’s reappearance . A gigantic powder-blue carriage in which they had arrived had been parked two hundred yards from Hagrid’s front door . The elephantine flying horses that pulled the carriage were now grazing in a makeshift paddock alongside it .
Them champions’re going ter have their work cut out . Harry, Ron, and Hermione urged him, but he just shook his head . “I don’t want ter spoil it fer yeh,” said Hagrid .
Hagrid had made what he said was a beef casserole but lost appetite . However, they enjoyed themselves trying to make Hagrid tell them what tasks were going to be . They wondered whether Fred and George were beardless yet . A light rain had started to fall by midafternoon .
“I’ll come with yeh,” said Hagrid, putting away his darning . They didn’t pay too much attention until a truly horrible smell reached their nostrils . “Er - eau de cologne,” said Hermione in amazement .
Hagrid was trudging off up the grounds with Madame Maxime, the Beaux-batons students following in their wake, jogging to keep up with their strides . They let themselves out of the cabin and shut the door behind them . The Durmstrang party was walking up towards the castle from the lake .
The Goblet of Fire now shone more brightly than anything in the whole Hall . The flames inside the goblet turned suddenly red again . Sparks began to fly from it, a tongue of flame shot into the air .
Harry saw Viktor Krum rise from the Slytherin table and slouch up toward Dumbledore . He turned right, walked along the staff table, and disappeared through the door into the next chamber . Now everyone’s attention was focused again on the goblet, which, seconds later, turned red once more .
"The Hogwarts champion," he called, “is Cedric Diggory!” “No!” said Ron loudly, but nobody heard him except Harry; the uproar from the next table was too great . But Dumbledore suddenly stopped speaking, and it was apparent to everybody what had distracted him . The fire in the goblet had just turned red again. Sparks were flying out of it .
A buzzing, as though of angry bees, was starting to fill the Hall . Professor McGonagall had got to her feet and swept past Ludo Bagman and Professor Karkaroff to whisper urgently to Professor Dumbledore . Harry turned to Ron and Hermione; beyond them, he saw the long Gryffindor table all watching him .
Viktor Krum, Cedric Diggory, and Fleur Delacour were grouped around the fire . They looked strangely impressive, silhouetted against the flames . Harry didn’t know how to explain what had just happened .
Harry’s name came out of the Goblet of Fire!” Krum’s thick eyebrows contracted slightly . Fleur frowned. “But evidently zair ‘as been a mistake” . “Well... it is amazing,” said Bagman .
“I’d rather like to know that myself, Dumbledore,” said Professor Karkaroff . He was wearing a steely smile, and his blue eyes were like chips of ice . “Ogwarts cannot ‘ave two champions. It is most injust,” said Madame Maxime .
“I am sure we are all agreed on that -” Professor Dumbledore said politely . “Dumbly-dorr must ‘ave made a mistake wiz ze line,” said Madame Maxime .
“You will set up the Goblet of Fire once more, and we will continue adding names until each school has two champions . It’s only fair, Dumbledore.” “But Karkaroff, it doesn’t work like that,” said Bagman . “You can’t leave your champion now. They’ve all got to compete.”
“Why should ‘e complain?” burst out Fleur Delacour, stamping her foot . “Maybe someone’s hoping Potter is going to die for it,” said Moody .
“You seem to have given this a great deal of thought, Moody,” said Karkaroff . “There are those who’ll turn innocent occasions to their advantage,” Moody retorted .
The first task is designed to test your daring, said Harry, Cedric, Fleur, and Viktor . The champions are not permitted to ask for or accept help from their teachers to complete the tasks in the tournament .
Madame Maxime beckoned to Krum, and they exited, though in silence . “Harry, Cedric, I suggest you go up to bed,” said Dumbledore . The Great Hall was deserted now; the candles had burned low, giving the jagged smiles of the pumpkins an eerie, flickering quality.
Ron and Hermione were going to believe him, or would they all think he’d put himself in for the tournament? Harry was supposed to be far away, in some distant country, in hiding, alone... feeble and powerless... but how could Voldemort have ensured that Harry’s name got into the Goblet of Fire? Yes, someone wanted him dead .
Voldemort had been talking to Wormtail... plotting Harry’s murder . He had barely noticed where his feet were carrying him . It was also a surprise to see that she was not alone in her frame .
Lee Jordan had unearthed a Gryffindor banner from somewhere, and insisted on draping it around Harry like a cloak . He wanted more than anything to find Ron and Hermione, to find a bit of sanity, but neither of them seemed to be in the common room . To his great relief, Harry found Ron was lying on his bed in the otherwise empty dormitory, still fully dressed .
Harry suddenly became aware that he was still wearing the scarlet Gryffindor banner that Lee had tied around him . He hastened to take it off, but it was knotted very tightly . “Well... no one else got across the Age Line,” said Ron .
Harry woke up on Sunday morning, it took him a moment to remember why he felt so miserable and worried . The moment he appeared, the people who had already finished breakfast broke into applause again . He walked resolutely over to the portrait hole, pushed it open, climbed out of it, and found himself face-to-face with Hermione .
Harry told Hermione exactly what had happened after he left the Gryffindor table the night before . "Well, of course I knew you hadn’t entered yourself," she said when he’d finished telling her about the scene in the chamber off the Hall . “Oh Harry, isn’t it obvious?” Harry said incredulously .
“I know you don’t ask for it... but - well - you know, Ron’s got all those brothers to compete against at home, and you’re really famous - he’s always shunted to one side whenever people see you, and he puts up with it... People gawping at my forehead everywhere I go...” “I’m not running around after him trying to make him grow up!” Harry said, so loudly that several owls in a nearby tree took flight in alarm
“He’d want you to tell him,” said Hermione sternly . “Harry, this isn’t going to be kept quiet,” said Harry . They both stood and watched it floating there for a moment, before a tentacle scooped it beneath the surface .
Hogwarts' Cedric Diggory was picked as a fourth champion . He had an urge to say something about the weight of anxiety that seemed to have settled inside his chest since last night . At this point, Hedwig fluttered down onto his shoulder and held out her leg .
Hufflepuff House had turned remarkably cold toward the whole lot of them . It was plain that Harry had stolen their champion’s glory . Ernie Macmillan and Justin Finch Fletchley did not talk to him even though they were repotting Bouncing Bulbs at the same tray .
To the class’s horror, Hagrid explained that the reason the skrewts had been killing one another was an excess of pent-up energy . The only good thing about this plan was that it distracted Malfoy completely . “Take this thing for a walk?” he repeated in disgust .
Harry assumed he was talking about the skrewts, because his classmates certainly weren’t . Every now and then, with an alarming bang, one of the ends would explode, causing it to shoot forward several yards, and more than one person was being dragged along on their stomach . The next few days were some of Harry’s worst at Hogwarts .
He could understand the Hufflepuffs’ attitude, even if he didn’t like it; they had their own champion to support . Most Ravenclaws seemed to think that he had been desperate to earn himself a bit more fame by tricking the goblet into accepting his name . Then there was the fact that Cedric looked the part of a champion so much more than he did .
Double Potions was always a horrible experience, but these days it was nothing short of torture . Being shut in a dungeon for an hour and a half with Snape and the Slytherins, all of whom seemed determined to punish Harry as much as possible for daring to become school champion . He had already struggled through one Friday’s worth, with Hermione sitting next to him intoning “ignore them, ignore them” under her breath, and he couldn’t see
“Oh very funny,” Hermione said sarcastically to Pansy Parkinson and her gang of Slytherin girls . “I’ve got loads. But don’t touch my hand, now. Don’t want a Mudblood sliming it up” Some of the anger Harry had been feeling for days seemed to burst through a dam in his chest . He had reached for his wand before he’d thought what he was doing .
Ron had hurried forward to see what was wrong with Hermione's teeth . She was looking more and more like a beaver as her teeth elongated, past her bottom lip, toward her chin . The Slytherins clamored to give their explanations; Snape pointed a long yellow finger at Malfoy and said, “Explain.” “Potter attacked me, sir -” “We attacked each other at the same time!” Harry shoute
Harry’s ears were ringing. The injustice of it made him want to curse Snape into a thousand slimy pieces . He passed Snape, walked with Ron to the back of the dungeon, and slammed his bag down onto the table . On the other side of the room, Malfoy turned his back on Snape and pressed his badge, smirking .
“Please, sir, I’m supposed to take Harry Potter upstairs,” said Snape . “All the champions have got to go, I think they want to take photographs...” Snape snapped . „Potter - take your bag and get out of my sight!” said Colin .
Ludo Bagman was talking to a witch Harry had never seen before . Fheur looked a good deal happier than Harry had seen her so far . A paunchy man was watching Fleur out of the corner of his eye .
Rita Skeeter drew out a long acid-green quill and a roll of parchment . She put the tip of the green quill into her mouth, sucked it for a moment with apparent relish . “That is - if Harry has no objection?” cried Bagman .
Rita Skeeter, forty-three, savage quill has punctured many inflated reputations . “I don’t know how my name got into the Goblet of Fire. I didn’t put it in there,” said Harry . "I haven’t really thought... yeah, nervous, I suppose," said Harry.
Rita Skeeter looked death in the face before, haven’t you? Harry was feeling really annoyed now . How on earth was he to know how his parents would feel if they were alive?
Rita Skeeter noticed her quill and the parchment had vanished from the box of Magical Mess Remover . Rita’s clawed fingers were snapping shut the clasp of her crocodile-skin bag . “I particularly enjoyed your description of me as an obsolete dingbat,” said Dumbledore .
Harry had met Mr. Ollivander before - he bought his own wand in Diagon Alley . Fleur Delacour swept over to Mr. Ohivander and handed him her . “Yes, I’ve never used veela hair myself,” said Fleur .
"Very well, very well, it’s in fine working order," said Mr. Ollivander . He lifted the wand and examined it minutely, turning it over and over before his eyes . "This is a Gregorovitch creation, unless I’m much mistaken?
Harry had entered Mr. Ollivander’s shop with Hagrid to buy a wand . He had found the one that suited him - this one, which was made of holly, eleven inches long . The phoenix feather had come from the same bird that supplied Lord Voldemort’s core .
Harry had never shared this piece of information with anybody . He was very fond of his wand, and couldn’t help being related to Aunt Petunia . Rita Skeeter’s QuickQuotes Quill might explode with excitement if he did .
Harry strode over to the barn owl, took the letter off its leg, and unrolled it . Harry - I can ’t say everything I would like to in a letter, it’s too risky in case the owle is intercepted - we need to talk face-to-face .
Sirius CHAPTER NINETEEN The Hungarian Horntail The prospect of talking face-to-face with Sirius was all that sustained Harry over the next fortnight . The shock of finding himself school champion had worn off slightly now, and the fear of what was facing him had started to sink in . Harry was finding it hard to think about the future at all; he felt as though it were crouching ahead of him like some horrific monster, barring his path .
Rita Skeeter had published her piece about the Triwizard Tournament . It had turned out to be not so much a report on the tournament as a highly colored life story of Harry . The article had been all about Harry, the names of the Beauxbatons and Durmstrang champions had been squashed into the last line of the article .
Harry felt the color rising in his face as he wheeled around in the corridor . “Oh - right - sorry,” she said, taking the quill back . Hermione had come in for her fair share of unpleasantness too, but she hadn’t yet started yelling at innocent bystanders .
Harry liked Hermione very much, but she wasn’t the same as Ron . There was much less laughter and a lot more hanging around in the library . Harry still hadn’t mastered Summoning Charms, he seemed to have developed something of a block about them .
The days until the first task seemed to slip by as though someone had fixed the clocks to work at double speed . Harry’s feeling of barely controlled panic was with him wherever he went, as everpresent as the snide comments about the Daily Prophet article .
Rita Skeeter and her photographer friend had just emerged from the Three Broomsticks pub . When they were gone, Harry said, “She’s staying in the village. I bet she’s coming to watch the first task” as he said it, his stomach flooded with a wave of molten panic . “Why don’t we go and have a butterbeer, it’s a bit cold, isn’t it?” said Hermione .
Harry saw his and Ron’s names at the top of the very short list . It seemed a long time ago that they had sat making up those predictions together . Hermione lapsed into thoughtful silence, while Harry drank his butterbeer .
Harry looked nervous but excited every time he had seen Cedric lately . Harry thought of Sirius, and the tight, tense knot in his chest seemed to ease slightly . He would be speaking to him in just over twelve hours, for tonight was the night they were meeting at the common room fire .
Hagrid had his usual tankard in front of him, but Moody was drinking from his hip flask . Moody had told them all that he preferred to prepare his own food and drink at all times, as it was so easy for Dark wizards to poison an unattended cup .
Harry knew Hagrid couldn’t see him, but Moody had obviously told Hagrid he was there . Hagrid said in a whisper so low that only Harry could hear it, “Harry, meet me tonight at midnight at me cabin. Wear that cloak.” Harry said, very surprised, “Why does Hagrid want me to meet him at midnight?” Hermione looked nervously around and hissed, “It might make you late for Sirius.” It was true that going down to Hagrid’s at
The Creevey brothers had managed to get hold of a stack of Support Cedric Diggory! badges and were trying to bewitch them to make them say Support Harry Potter! instead . Harry crept past them to the portrait hole and waited for a minute or so, keeping an eye on his watch . Then Harry slipped past her with a whispered “Thanks!” and set off through the castle .
Harry hurried to follow and found that Hagrid was leading him to the Beauxbatons carriage . Madame Maxime closed the door behind her, Hagrid offered her his arm . She was wearing a silk shawl wrapped around her massive shoulders .
Harry hurried up alongside them - for a split second, he thought he was seeing bonfires, and men darting around them . The dragons were rearing onto their hind legs inside an enclosure fenced with thick planks of wood . There was a silvery-blue one with long, pointed horns, snapping and snarling at the wizards on the ground . A red one with an odd fringe of fine gold spikes around its face .
At least thirty wizards, seven or eight to each dragon, were attempting to control them, pulling on the chains connected to heavy leather straps around their necks and legs . Hagrid looked up, high above him, and saw the eyes of the black dragon, with vertical pupils like a cat’s, bulging with either fear or rage, he couldn’t tell which... It was making a horrible noise, a yowling, screeching scream .
“What breeds you got here, Charlie?” said Hagrid . Harry could see a strip of gleaming yellow beneath its wrinkled black eyelid . “This is a Hungarian Horntail,” said Charlie .
Charlie’s fellow keepers staggered up to the Horntail at that moment, carrying a clutch of huge granite-gray eggs between them in a blanket . Then he said, “How’s Harry?” “Fine,” said Hagrid . “Just hope he’s still fine after he's faced this lot,” said Charlie grimly, looking out over the dragons’ enclosure .
Harry fell backward, his glasses askew, clutching the cloak around him . A voice nearby said, “Ouch! Who’s there?” He recognized the goatee... it was Karkaroff . After a minute or so, Harry seemed to decide that he had hit some sort of animal . Then he crept back under the cover of the trees and started to edge forward toward the place where the dragons were .
Harry pulled off the Invisibility Cloak and threw himself into an armchair in front of the fire . The room was in semidarkness; the flames were the only source of light . Sirius looked different from Harry’s memory of him .
Sirius looked at Harry, eyes full of concern, eyes that hadn’t yet lost the look Azkaban had given them . “Harry, he was a Death Eater. You know what Death Eaters are, don’t you?” Sirius said, “I haven’t got long here... I’ve broken into a wizarding house to use the fire, but they could be back at any time. There are things I need to warn you about” Sirius .
“He did a deal with the Ministry of Magic,” said Sirius bitterly . “He’d seen the error of his ways, and then he named names... he put a load of other people into Azkaban in his place... He’s not very popular in there, I can tell you,” said Harry slowly .
“I’ve been hearing some very strange things,” he said slowly . “Exactly... she disappeared in Albania, and that’s definitely where Voldemort was rumored to be last... and she would have known the Triwizard Tournament was coming up, wouldn’t she?” said Harry .
“Right - these dragons,” said Sirius, speaking very quickly now . “There’s a way, Harry. But you can do it alone,” Sirius said. “You need about half a dozen wizards at a time to overcome a dragon -” He said .
Harry seized one of the POTTER REALLY STINKS badges off the table and chucked it across the room . It hit Ron on the forehead and bounced off . “There you go,” Harry said. “Something for you to wear on Tuesday. You might even have a scar now, if you’re lucky... That’s what you want,” Harry says .
Sirius warns about Karkaroff: “Let’s just try and keep you alive until Tuesday evening” Hermione said desperately, “and then we can worry” . Harry pulled down every book he could find on dragons, and both set to work searching through the large pile . He returned to the table with a pile of spellbooks, set them down, and began to flick through each .
Harry's brain filled with a sort of blank buzzing, which didn't seem to allow room for concentration . He stared hopelessly down the index of Basic Hexes for the Busy and Vexed . Hermione irritably as Viktor Krum slouched in, cast a surly look over at the pair of them .
Harry followed Cedric at a distance and saw that he was heading toward the Charms corridor . He pulled out his wand, and took careful aim . “Tell Flitwick I’m coming, go on...” said Harry . This was exactly what Harry had been hoping for .
Harry saw some of the panic he’d been feeling since Saturday night flickering in his gray eyes . “Are you sure?” Cedric said in a hushed voice. “But how did you find out? We’re not supposed to know...” Harry quickly - he knew Hagrid would be in trouble if he told the truth .
Harry followed Moody into his office, wondering what was going to happen to him . Moody closed the door behind them and turned to look at Harry . Harry didn’t know what to say; this wasn’t the reaction he had expected at all .
“I didn’t cheat,” said Moody sharply . “I wasn’t accusing you, laddie. I’ve been telling you, he can be as high-minded as he likes, but you can bet old Karkaroff and Maxime won’t be. They want to beat Dumbledore. They’d like to prove he’s only human.”
Moody swiveled around so fast it made Harry feel queasy to watch it . “I don’t show favoritism, me. I’m just going to give you some good, general advice. And the first bit is – play to your strengths.” Moody said .
Harry tried to make various objects fly across the room toward him . He wanted to skip Divination to keep practicing, but Hermione refused pointblank to skive off Arithmancy . Professor Trelawney spent half the lesson telling everyone that the position of Mars with relation to Saturn meant people born in July were in danger of sudden, violent deaths .
Harry and Hermione left in a hurry before the noise attracted Filch, and went back to the Gryffindor common room, which was mercifully empty . At two o’clock in the morning, Harry stood near the fireplace, surrounded by heaps of objects: books, quills, several upturned chairs, an old set of Gobstones, and Neville’s toad, Trevor .
Harry felt oddly separate from everyone around him, whether they were wishing him good luck or hissing “We’ll have a box of tissues ready, Potter” as he passed . It was a state of nervousness so advanced that he wondered whether he mightn’t just lose his head when they tried to lead him out to his dragon, and start trying to curse everyone in sight . He left the Great Hall with Professor McGonagall, who looked nearly as anxious as Hermione .
Harry saw that a tent had been erected, its entrance facing them, screening the dragons from view . Fleur Delacour was sitting in a corner on a how wooden stool . Viktor Krum looked even surlier than usual, which Harry supposed to show nerves .
Fleur Delacour and Krum hadn’t reacted at all . But in no time, hundreds upon hundreds of pairs of feet could be heard passing the tent . It seemed like about a second later to Harry .
“You have each pulled out the dragon you will face, and the numbers refer to the order in which you are to take on the dragons, do you see? Now... Harry... could I have a quick word? Outside?” “Er... yes,” said Harry blankly . “Got a plan?” said Bagman, lowering his voice further .
Harry went back inside to Fleur and Krum to see Cedric emerging from it . It was worse than Harry could ever have imagined sitting there and listening . The crowd screamed... yelled... gasped like a single many-headed entity .
The same process started again...“Oh I’m not sure that was wise!” they could hear Bagman shouting gleefully . Harry heard the crowd erupt into applause once more... Fleur must have been successful too! A pause, while Fleur’s marks were being shown... more clapping... then, for the third time, the whistle .
The Horntail crouched low over her clutch of eggs, her wings half-furled, her evil eyes upon him, a monstrous, scaly, black lizard, thrashing her spiked tail, heaving yard-long gouge marks in the hard ground . The crowd was making a great deal of noise, but whether friendly or not, Harry didn’t know or care . It was time to do what he had to do... to focus his mind, entirely and absolutely
The Horntail’s head followed him; he knew what it was going to do and pulled out of the dive just in time; a jet of fire had been released exactly where he would have been had he not swerved away... but Harry didn’t care... that was no more than dodging a Bludger . “Great Scott, he can fly!” yelled Bagman as the crowd shrieked .
The Horntail’s head rose with him, her neck now stretched to its fullest extent, still swaying, hike a snake before its charmer... She shot fire into the air, which he dodged... Her jaws opened wide... “Come on, come and get me... up you get now...” And then she reared, spreading her great, black, leathery wings at last, as wide as those of a small airplane . Before the dragon knew what he had done, he was speed
Harry saw the dragon keepers rushing forward to subdue the Horntail . He flew back over the stands, the noise of the crowd pounding his eardrums . “That was excellent, Potter!” cried Professor McGonagall as he got off the Firebolt .
Madam Pomfrey examined Harry’s shoulder, talking furiously all the while . She cleaned the cut with a dab of some purple liquid that smoked and stung, but then poked his shoulder with her wand, and he felt it heal instantly . It was as though the last few weeks had never happened - as though Ron were meeting Ron for the first time .
Ron grinned nervously at him, and Harry grinnes back Hermione burst into tears . “There’s nothing to cry about!” Harry told her, bewildered. “You two are so stupid!” she shouted .
Cedric Transfigured a rock on the ground... turned it into a dog... he got burned as well . The dragon changed its mind halfway through and decided it would rather have him than the Labrador; he only got away . It went all sleepy, but then it snored, and this great jet of flame shot out . Now that the Horntail had been taken away, Harry could see where the judges were sitting .
Ludo Bagman - ten. The crowd was cheering harder than ever . “You’re tied in first place, Harry! You and Krum!” said Charlie Weasley . Bagman wants a word, back in the champions’ tent.”
Harry left the tent, rejoined Ron, and looked as pleased as though he had just got past a dragon . Then, as they rounded the clump of trees behind which Harry had first heard the dragons roar, a witch leapt out from behind them . Rita Skeeter was wearing acid-green robes today; the Quick-Quotes Quill in her hand blended perfectly against them.
Harry, Ron, and Hermione went up to the Owlery to find Pigwidgeon . On the way, Harry filled Ron in on everything Sirius had told him about Karkaroff . By the time they entered, Ron was saying that they ought to have suspected it all along .
Harry had swerved, circled, and dodged the Horntail . They watched Pigwidgeon disappear into the darkness . Lee Jordan had let off some Filibuster’s Fireworks, so the air was thick with stars and sparks . Dean Thomas had put up some impressive new banners, most of which depicted Harry zooming around his head on fire .
“I was supposed to work out how to get past the dragon on my own too,” Harry muttered . Harry dug his fingernails into the groove that ran all the way around it . The nearest thing to it Harry had ever heard was the ghost orchestra at Nearly Headless Nick’s deathday party . “Shut it!” Fred bellowed, his hands over his ears .
Neville, who had just bitten into a custard cream, choked and spat it out . He put on a high-pitched squeak and imitated a house-elf . “How do you get in there?” Fred said in an innocently casual sort of voice .
Harry was glad of its fires and thick walls every time he passed the Durmstrang ship on the lake . Hagrid was keeping Madame Maxime’s horses well provided with their preferred drink of single-malt whiskey . There were now only ten skrewts left; apparently their desire to kill one another had not been exercised out of them .
Hagrid was yelling, “Don panic, now, don’ panic!” while the skrewts rampaged around the pumpkin patch . Harry, Ron, and Hermione were among those who remained outside trying to help Hagrid . Together they managed to restrain and tie up nine of Hagrid’s nine . “Don’ frighten him, now!” Hagrid shouted as Ron and Harry used their wands .
“Who’re you?” Rita Skeeter replied, beaming at him . “Thought Dumbledore said you weren’t allowed inside the school anymore,” said Hagrid . „Blast-Ended Skrewts,” grunted Rita .
“Lovely... I don’t suppose you’d like to give an interview, would you? Share some of your experience of magical creatures? The Prophet does a zoological column every Wednesday, as I’m sure you know . “Blast-Ended Skrewts,” Hagrid said eagerly .
Professor Trelawney, who had been so pleased with the pair when they had been predicting their own horrific deaths, quickly became irritated as they sniggered through her explanation of the various ways in which Pluto could disrupt everyday life . “I would think,” she said, in a mystical whisper that did not conceal her obvious annoyance, “that some of us” - she stared very meaningfully at Harry- .
Hermione wasn’t at dinner, nor was she in the library when they went to look for her afterward . But then Ron realized that six or seven girls were lurking in the next row of books, debating exactly the same thing . “Harry, you’ve got to come, the most amazing thing’s happened- please -” Harry said .
She turned left at the bottom of the staircase and hurried toward the door through which Harry had gone the night after the Goblet of Fire had regurgitated his and Harry’s names . Hermione seized his arm again, pulled him in front of the picture of the giant fruit bowl, stretched out her forefinger, and tickled the huge green pear . He pulled the door open, and pushed Harry hard in the back .
Harry squealed, “Harry Potter, sir! Harry Potter!” Harry gasped . “It is Dobby, Sir, it is!” he said in amazement . He was wearing the strangest assortment of garments Harry had ever seen .
Dobby and Winky had come to work at Hogwarts, sir! “Winky?” said Harry . “No, Sir, yes!” said Harry, and he pulled him off into the kitchen . They were all wearing the same uniform .
Dobby squeaked loudly, over Winky’s sobs. “Er - yeah, okay,” said Harry . Instantly, about six house-elves came trotting up behind him . “Only a week. Harry Potter, sir!!” said Harry, in an impressed voice .
The Hogwarts house-elves had started edging away from Dobby, as though he were carrying something contagious . “But most wizards doesn’t want a house-elf who wants paying, miss!” he said . ‘And then, Harry Potter, dobby goes to visit Winky, and finds out Winky has been freed too, sir!’ he flung herself forward off her stool .
“That’s not very much!” Hermione shouted indignantly from the floor . “Winky is a disgraced elf, but Winky is not yet getting paid!” she squeaked. “You is not insulting my master, miss! You did nothing wrong, he was really horrible to you! You didn’t do anything wrong, you were really terrible to you!” She screeched .
Professor Dumbledore said we are free to - to-” Dobby looked suddenly nervous and beckoned Harry closer. “But dobby is not wanting to, Harry Potter,” he said, talking normally again, and shaking his head so that his ears flapped . “Dobby could tell Harry Potter that his old masters were - were- bad Dark wizards’.” Harry pulled him away from the table. “You just need a bit of practice!” squealed Winky fur
“They aren’t my masters anymore, Winky!” said Dobby defiantly . “Oh you is a bad elf, Dobbby!” moaned Winky, tears leaking down her face once more .
Dobby is going to buy a sweater next, Harry Potter! He said happily, pointing at his bare chest, “Tell you what, do you?” Ron said . “We might have to shrink it a bit to fit you,” Ron told him, “but it’ll go well with your tea cozy.” Harry and Ron loaded their pockets with cream cakes and pies .
“Let’s hope they don’t look too closely at Winky,” said Harry . “Once the shock’s worn off, and she’s got used to Hogwarts, she’ll see how much better off she is without that Crouch man.” “She seems to love him,” said Ron thickly .
Harry and Ron had been having a sword fight with a couple of Fred and George’s fake wands at the back of the class . Professor McGonagall looked up, Ron holding a tin parrot and Harry, a rubber haddock . The Yule Ball is approaching - a traditional part of the Triwizard Tournament .
Professor McGonagall called above the noise, “Potter - a word, if you please.” Harry looked suspiciously at him, as though she thought he was trying to be funny . “Oh yes, you do,” said Professor McGoneagall irritably. “I’m not dancing,” he said .
Harry had never known so many people to put their names down to stay at Hogwarts . He always did, because the alternative was usually going back to Privet Drive . This year, everyone in the fourth year and above seemed to be staying .
Harry had to endure Dean’s, Seamus’s and Ron’s taunts about her all through History of Magic . The following day, two more girls asked him, a second year and (to his horror) a fifth year . Harry doubted very much if any of the girls who had asked to be his partner so far would have wanted to go to the ball with him if he hadn’t been a school champion .
Harry, Ron, and Hermione asked him how his interview with Rita Skeeter had gone during the last Care of Magical Creatures lesson of the term . “She jus’ wanted me ter talk about you, Harry,” Hagrid continued in a low voice . „She wants a new angle, Hagrid,” said Harry grimly as he shelled salamander eggs .
The Yule Ball became increasingly boisterous as it progressed . Harry didn’t believe half of them - for example, that Dumbledore had bought eight hundred barrels of mulled mead from Madam Rosmerta . It seemed to be fact that he had booked the Weird Sisters .
Professor Binns allowed them to play games in his lesson on Wednesday . It was amazing how he could make even bloody and vicious goblin riots sound as boring as Percy’s cauldron-bottom report . "Evil, he is," Ron said bitterly that night in Gryffindor common room .
Harry had put the golden egg upstairs in his trunk and hadn’t opened it since the celebration party . There were still two and a half months to go until he needed to know what all the screechy wailing meant . “You’re going to look a real idiot if everyone else knows what the next task is and you don’t!” said Hermione .
“You’ve already asked her?” “Good point,” said Fred . “Oy! Angelina!” Fred looked over at him. “All right, then,” she said .
Hogwarts staff were demonstrating a continued desire to impress visitors from Beauxbatons and Durmstrang . Harry noticed that they were the most stunning he had yet seen inside the school . The usual twelve Christmas trees in the Great Hall were bedecked with everything from luminous holly berries to real, hooting, golden owls .
“Er - Cho? Could I have a word with you?” he thought furiously, as all the girls around Cho started doing it . He looked at her and his stomach gave a weird lurch as though he had missed a step going downstairs . “D’you - d’you want to go to the ball with me?” said Harry .
“Oh Harry, I’m really sorry,” said Harry. “Well, ‘bye’ said Cho, still very red. “Oh - Cedric Diggory.” “Oh right,” said Cho. It felt as though they had been filled with lead in their absence . “Yes, indeed, dear!” she trilled, straightening her new tinsel hair band .
Ron looked up at Harry, a sort of blind horror in his face . “He - er - just asked Fleur Delacour to go to the ball with him!” said Ginny .
Harry and Ron were turned down by girls they asked to the ball . Hermione was staring at her as though suddenly seeing her in a whole new light . “Well - you can come with one of us!” she said acidly. “Oh come on,” she said impatiently.
“Oh did I?” said Hermione, and her eyes flashed dangerously . “Okay, okay, we know you’re a girl!” She said very angrily. “I’m going with someone else!” And she stormed off toward the girls’ dormitories again. “She’s lying,” said Ginny quietly .
Harry sighed, lowering his voice so that Ron wouldn’t hear . “She’s going with someone else.” Parvati looked astonished .
Gryffindor Tower was hardly less crowded now than during term-time . Fred and George had had a great success with their Canary Creams . George confided to Harry that he and Fred were now working on something else .
Harry and Ron both whipped around, but Hermione said loudly, waving to someone over Malfoys shoulder, “Hello, Professor Moody!” Malfay went pale and jumped backward, looking wildly around for Moody, but he was still up at the staff table, finishing his stew . “Well, they’re different... I’ve just noticed...” She said . It was a very different smile from the one he remembered.
Ron’s tiny owl was twittering madly on the top of the icicle-laden banisters . People passing him were pointing and laughing, and a group of third-year girls paused and said, “Oh look at the weeny . Isn’t he cute?” “Stupid little feathery git!” Pigwidgeon hooted happily, his head protruding over the fist . “You bring letters to the addressee! You don
Sirius “He sounds exactly like Moody,” said Harry quietly, tucking the letter away again inside his robes . “Hermione, he’s got ages!” snapped Ron. “Oh I suppose not,” she sighed, and she sat down to watch their chess match .
“Dobby is sorry, sir!” squeaked Dobby anxiously, jumping backward with his long fingers over his mouth . “It’s okay,” said Harry, still breathing rather faster than usual . There was a Christmas bauble tied to the loop on top of his tea cozy .
Harry had been using them to cushion his Sneakoscope for over a year now . He pulled out the Sneako-scope and handed them to Dobby, saying, “Sorry, I forgot to wrap them...” But dobby was utterly delighted . “I have seven now, sir... But sir...” said Ron, grinning over from his own bed .
Dobby hurried out of the dormitory waving good-bye to Ron and the others as he passed . “Dobby must go now, sir, we is already making Christmas dinner in the kitchens!” said Harry . The Dursleys’ consisted of a single tissue, an all time low .
Harry and Ron met up with Hermione in the common room, and they went down to breakfast together . They spent most of the morning in Gryffindor Tower, where everyone was enjoying their presents . The snow was untouched except for the deep channels made by the Durmstrang and Beauxbatons students on their way up to the castle .
The Fat Lady was sitting in her frame with her friend Violet from downstairs . Harry, Ron, Seamus, Dean, and Neville changed into their dress robes up in their dormitory . They looked very self-conscious, but none as much as Ron, who surveyed himself in the long mirror in the corner .
Fred winked at Harry as he passed him on the way out of the portrait hole . The entrance hall was packed with students too, all milling around waiting for eight o’clock, when the doors to the Great Hall would be thrown open . Parvati found her sister, Padma, and led her over to Harry and Ron .
Krum was at the front of the party, accompanied by a pretty girl in blue robes Harry didn’t know . Over their heads he saw that an area of lawn right in front of Durmstrang had been transformed into a sort of grotto full of fairy lights .
Parvati was gazing at Hermione in unflattering disbelief . He caught sight of Ron and Padma as he neared the top table .
Percy Weasley drew out the empty chair beside him, staring pointedly at Harry . He was wearing brand-new navy-blue dress robes and an expression of such smugness that Harry thought it ought to be fined . “Why didn’t he come?” Harry asked .
Harry wanted very much to ask whether Mr. Crouch had stopped calling Percy “Weatherby” yet, but resisted the temptation . There was no food as yet on the glittering golden plates, but small menus were lying in front of each of them . He looked carefully down at his own menu, then said very clearly to his plate, “Pork chops!” And pork chops appeared .
Ve have just four floors, and the fires are lit only for magical purposes . But in vinter, ve are flying every day, over the lakes and the mountains . “Now, now, Viktor!” said Karkaroff with a laugh that didn’t reach his cold eyes .
Fleur Delacour was criticizing Hogwarts decorations to Roger Davies . “Zis is nothing,” she said dismissively, looking around at the sparkling walls of the Great Hall .
The Weird Sisters were all extremely hairy and dressed in black robes that had been artfully ripped and torn . They picked up their instruments, and Harry realized that the lanterns on all the other tables had gone out, and that the other champions and their partners were standing up .
Mad-Eye Moody was doing an extremely ungainly two-step with Professor Sinistra . “Nice socks Potter,” Moody growled as he passed, his magical eye staring through Harry’s robes . The Weird Sisters stopped playing, applause filled the hall once more .
Padma was sitting with her arms and legs crossed, one foot jiggling in time to the music . Every now and then she threw a disgruntled look at Ron, who was completely ignoring her . He was glaring at Hermione and Krum, who were dancing nearby .
“I s’pose he asked you to come with him while you were both in the library?” Hermione said . “No, I wasn’t! If you really want to know, he said - he’d been coming up to the library every day to try and talk to me, but he hadn’t been able to pluck up the courage!” She said very quickly, and blushed so deeply .
“I haven’t got a problem with Hermione coming with Krum -” Ron ignored Harry too . “Why don’t you go and find Vicky, he’ll be wondering where you are,” Ron said .
Professor Dumbledore was dancing with Professor Sprout, Ludo Bagman with Professor McGonagall . Madame Maxime and Hagrid were cutting a wide path around the dance floor as they waltzed through the students . Percy hissed, watching Fred and George suspiciously .
“Oh yes,” Bagman said cheerfully, “it’s all been enormous fun. How’s old Barty doing? Shame he couldn’t come.” “Oh I’m sure Mr. Crouch will be up and about in no time,” Percy said . “Oh no, I’ve had to deal with all sorts of things that have cropped up in his absence - you heard Ali Bashir was caught smuggling a consignment of flying carpets into the country?
“Flee - I will make your excuses. I, however, am remaining at Hogwarts.” Snape had his wand out and was blasting rosebushes apart . “Ten points from Ravenclaw, Fawcett!” Snape snarled as a girl ran past him. “And ten points from Hufflepuff too, Stebbins!” he added .
Harry looked around, back up the path, and saw Fleur Delacour and Roger Davies standing half-concealed in a rosebush nearby . He tapped Ron on the shoulder and jerked his head toward them, meaning they could easily sneak off that way without being noticed . Ron, eyes widening in horror at the sight of Fleur, shook his head vigorously, and pulled Harry deeper into the shadows behind the reindeer .
Madame Maxime was listening, motionless, apparently staring at the silvery fountain . “Dad raised me... but he died, o’ course, jus’ after I started school . Sorta had ter make me own way after that. Dumbledore was a real help, mind. Very kind ter me, he was...” Hagrid pulled out a large spotted silk handkerchief .
Hagrid was still sitting on the bench, staring after her . It was much too dark to make out his expression . Ron looked around at Harry, his expression very serious indeed . “Let’s go...” But Ron didn’t move .
Harry and Ron spent the rest of the ball discussing giants in their corner . Harry tried not to watch Cho and Cedric too much; it gave him a strong desire to kick something . When the Weird Sisters finished playing at midnight, everyone gave them a last, loud round of applause .
Harry and Ron saw Hermione saying good night to Krum before he went back to the Durmstrang ship . It was Cedric Diggory, who shrugged, looking bad-tempered, and continued to climb the stairs . He grinned at him again and hurried back down the stairs to Cho .
Ron and Hermione were snoozing in the picture over the portrait hole . Harry had to yell “Fairy lights!” before he woke them up . He climbed into the common room and found them having a blazing row . Ron mouthed soundlessly like a goldfish out of water .
Ron and Hermione seemed to have reached an unspoken agreement not to discuss their argument . They were being quite friendly to each other, though oddly formal . Ron looked as though he would have liked to reply scathingly, but perhaps he didn’t want another row . It was time to think of the homework they had neglected during the first week of the holidays .
Harry had told Cedric exactly what was coming in the first task . But he didn’t need that sort of rubbishy help - not from someone who kept walking down corridors hand in hand with Cho, anyway . So the first day of the new term arrived, and Harry set off to lessons .
Draco Malfoy and the rest of the Slytherins were joining the class . All of them looked gleeful, and none looked surprised to see Professor Grubbly-Plank . Harry, Ron, and Hermione followed her, looking back over their shoulders at Hagrid’s cabin .
Albus Dumbledore, headmaster of Hogwarts School of Witchcraft and Wizardry, has never been afraid to make controversial staff appointments . In September of this year, he hired Alastor “Mad-Eye” Moody, the notoriously jinx-happy ex-Auror, to teach Care of Magical Creatures . Mr. Rubeus Hagrid has enjoyed the position of gamekeeper at the school ever since a job secured for him by D
Hagrid has maimed several pupils during a series of lessons that many admit to being ‘very frightening’ . In conversation with a Daily Prophet reporter last month, he admitted breeding creatures he has dubbed “BlastEnded Skrewts” . The creation of new breeds of magical creature is, of course, an activity normally observed by the Department for the Regulation and Control of Magical Creatures .
In a bizarre twist, Hagrid is reputed to have developed a close friendship with the boy who brought around You-Know-Who’s fall from power . It is possible Fridwulfa escaped to one of the giant communities still existing in foreign mountain ranges . Albus Dumbledore surely has a duty to ensure that Harry Potter, along with his fellow students, is warned about the dangers of associating with part-giants.
Harry was so angry that the Daily Prophet article shook in his hands as he turned to stare unseeingly at the unicorn . “I hope she stays, that woman!” said Parvati Patil when the lesson had ended and they were all heading back to the castle for lunch .
“Maybe she’s got an Invisibility Cloak,” said Harry . “We didn’t have any choice! The stupid prat, talking about his giantess mother where anyone could have heard him!” said Hermione .
Hagrid didn't see a sign of him all week . He didn’t appear at the staff table at mealtimes . Professor Grubbly-Plank continued to take the Care of Magical Creatures classes .
Harry had found a miniature arm under his bed on Boxing Day . The pub was as crowded as ever, but one quick look around at all the tables told Harry that Hagrid wasn’t there . He went up to the bar with Ron and Hermione, ordered three butterbeers from Madam Rosmerta .
Harry watched Bagman in the mirror at the Three Broomsticks on a weekend when there was no Triwizard event . But just then Harry heard him say brusquely to the goblins, and Bagman hurried through the pub toward Harry, his boyish grin back in place . “You couldn’t give us a moment, you two, could you?” said Harry .
“Absolute nightmare,” said Bagman to Harry in an undertone . “Their English isn’t too good... it’s like being back with all the Bulgarians at the Quidditch World Cup... but at least they used sign language another human could recognize. This lot keep gabbling in Gobbledegook... and I don’t like to use it in case they think I’m threatening them.” He gave a short, booming laugh .
“I really wanted to ask you” - he lowered his voice - “how are you getting on with your golden egg?” “Er... not bad,” Harry said untruthfully . “Well... well... well, yes,” said Bagman impatiently, “but - come on.
Bagman looked almost affronted, but couldn’t say much more as Fred and George turned up at that point . “Well, I must dash,” said Bagman, with a last disappointed glance at Harry .
"Maybe Percys poisoning him," said Ron . "They’d normally deal with the Department for the Regulation and Control of Magical Creatures," said Harry .
Rita Skeeter was wearing banana-yellow robes today; her long nails were painted shocking pink, and she was accompanied by her paunchy photographer . Harry, Ron, and Hermione glaring at her as she approached. “... didn’t seem very keen to talk to us, did he, Bozo? And what’s he doing with a pack of goblins in town anyway? Showing them the sights... what nonsense... he was always a bad
Madam Rosmerta was staring over from behind the bar, apparently oblivious to the fact that the flagon she was filling with mead was overflowing . Rita Skeeters smile flickered very slightly, but hitched it back almost at once; she snapped open her crocodile-skin handbag, pulled out her Quick-Quotes Quill, and said, “How about giving me an interview about the Hagrid you know. Harry? The man behind the muscles
“You don’t want to go upsetting Rita Skeeter,” said Ron nervously . “My parents don't read the Daily Prophet. She can’t scare me into hiding!” said Hermione .
Harry fended off Fang and looked around, barking madly and trying to lick his ears . His face was blotchy, his eyes swollen, and he had gone to the other extreme where his hair was concerned . “Hi, Hagrid,” said Harry, closing the door behind Harry, Ron, and Hermione .
Two fat tears leaked out of Hagrid’s beetle-black eyes and fell slowly into his tangled beard . "Not all of ‘em wan me ter stay," said Professor Dumbledore . “Hagrid, look what I’ve got for relatives!” said Harry .
Dumbledore left the cabin, pausing only to scratch Fangs ears . When the door had shut behind him, Hagrid began to sob into his hands . He looked up, his eyes very red indeed, and said, “Yeah, he is,” said Ron .
“Tha was taken jus’ after I got inter Hogwarts,” Hagrid croaked . “Dad was dead chuffed... thought I migh’ not be a wizard, see, ‘cos me mum... well, anyway.” Got me the gamekeeper job... trusts people, he does. Knows people can turn out okay even if their families weren’... well... all tha’ respectable. There’s some who’d even pretend they just had big
Hagrid’s miserable face broke into a wide, watery smile . It’d show ‘em Dumbledore’s the one who’s got it righ’, lettin’ anyone in as long as they can do magic . The incomprehensible egg weighed more heavily than ever on Harry’s conscience .
Harry planned his excursion carefully, because he had been caught out of bed and out-of-bounds by Filch the caretaker in the middle of the night once before . The Invisibility Cloak would be essential, and as an added precaution, Harry thought he would take the Marauders Map, which was the most useful aid to rule-breaking Harry owned . On Thursday night, Harry sneaked up to bed, put on the cloak, crept back downstairs, and, just as he
It was awkward moving under the cloak tonight, because Harry had the heavy egg under one arm and the map held in front of his nose with the other . By checking the map at strategic intervals, Harry was able to ensure that he wouldn’t run into anyone he wanted to avoid . When he reached the statue of Boris the Bewildered, a lost-looking wizard with his gloves on the wrong hands, he located the right door, leaned close to it, and muttered the password,
Harry amused himself for awhile turning the taps on and off, particularly enjoying the effect of one whose jet bounced off the surface of the water in large arcs . It was so deep that his feet barely touched the bottom, and he actually did a couple of lengths before swimming back to the side and treading water, staring at the egg . The wailing, screeching sound filled the bathroom, echoing and reverberating off the marble walls .
Harry, Ron, and Hermione had found Myrtle’s out-of-order toilets a convenient place to brew Polyjuice Potion in secret . The forbidden potion had turned him into living replicas of Crabbe and Goyle for an hour, so that they could sneak into the Slytherin common room . “I’m - I’m not wearing anything!” Harry said in outrage, “I closed my eyes when you got in” .
Harry lowered the egg beneath the foamy surface and opened it... and this time, it did not wail . A gurgling song was coming out of it, a song whose words he couldnt distinguish through the water . “You need to put your head under too,” said Myrtle, who was thoroughly enjoying bossing him around .
“I’ve got to go and look for people who can’t use their voices above the ground...” Harry said slowly . He had never seen Moaning Myrtle so cheerful, apart from the day when a dose of PolyJuice Potion had given Hermione the hairy face and tail of a cat . “Well, thats what Diggory thought,” she said .
Myrtle jerked her head toward the mermaid with an expression of great dislike on her glum face . “Thats it, isn’t it?” said Harry excitedly . He felt the excitement drain out of him as though someone had just pulled a plug in his stomach .
Olive Hornby came into the bathroom – ‘Are you in here again, sulking, Myrtle?’ She said, ‘because Professor Dippet asked me to look for you -’ And then she saw my body... ooooh, she didn’t forget it until her dying day, I made sure of that... followed her around and reminded her, I did. “We’ve taken what you’ll sorely miss.” “Well, I’m a lot further on than I was... Shu
Harry looked at the Marauders Map to check that the coast was still clear . A single dot was flitting around a room in the bottom left-hand corner - Snapes office . The dot wasn’t labeled “Severus Snape”... it was Bartemius Crouch . Harry looked closely as the dot moved around and around the room .
Harrys leg suddenly sank right through the trick step Neville always forgot to jump . He gave an ungainly wobble, and the golden egg slipped from under his arm . The golden egg fell through the tapestry at the bottom of the staircase, burst open, and began wailing loudly in the corridor below .
Filch's footsteps halted; there was a clink of metal on metal and the wailing stopped . Harry stood very still, one leg still Jammed tightly in the magical step . Filch was going to pull aside the tapestry, expecting to see Peeves... and there would be no Peevs... but if he came up the stairs, he would spot the Marauder’s Map... and Invisibility Cloak or not, the map would show “Harry
Harry gritted his teeth, convinced his loudly thumping heart would give him away at any second... “Peeves?” Snape snapped . “I - yes, Professor - but -” Filch looked yearningly up the stairs, right through Harry, and then down into the corridor below .
Professor Snape and Filch both looked down at the foot of the stairs . Harry saw Mad-Eye Moody limp into sight through the narrow gap between their heads . Moody was wearing his old traveling cloak over his nightshirt .
Harry saw the edge of Snapes sallow face turn a nasty brick color . Moody's face twisted into a smile . “I refuse to believe that he gave you orders to search my office!” Moody said .
Snape and Filch both turned to look at the Marauders Map, still lying on the staircase six steps below him . Harry threw caution to the winds; he raised his arms under the cloak and waved furiously at Moody to attract his attention . “It’s mine! Mine!” Snape had reached out for it, a horrible expression of dawning comprehension on his face .
Moody was looking down at Moody, and Harry couldn’t see the expression on his face . The torchlight flickered across his mangled face, so that the scars, and the chunk missing from his nose, looked deeper and darker than ever . “I merely thought,” said Snape, in a voice of forced calm .
Filch handed Moody the egg and disappeared from view too, muttering to Mrs. Norris . “Never mind my sweet... we’ll see Dumbledore in the morning... tell him what Peeves was up to...” A door slammed. “Yeah... I - er... thanks,” said Harry weakly. “Merlins beard,” Moody whispered, staring at the map, his magical eye going haywire .
Harry could tell that this news meant something to Moody and very much wanted to know what it was . “Er... Professor Moody... why d’you reckon Mr. Crouch wanted to look around Snapes office?” Harry asked .
“You’re a sharp boy. Potter,” he said slowly . Harry stared at Moody in a more businesslike tone . “You ever thought of a career as an Auror, Potter?” Harry said .
Harry walked slowly back into his office, lost in thought about Snape and Crouch . Harry thought he’d like to check how scarred the rest of them were before he chose it as a career . “You said you’d already worked out that egg clue!” said Hermione indignantly .
Professor Flitwick had given each student a stack of cushions on which to practice . It was a good theory, but it wasn’t working very well . Neville’s aim was so poor he kept sending much heavier things flying across the room .
“Oh Ron,” said Hermione, ignoring Ron . “You just want to think Snapes up to something,” said Harry grimly . She Banished a cushion and it flew across the room and landed in the box they were supposed to be aiming at.
Harry had explained about Aqua-Lungs, and Ron couldn’t see why Harry shouldn’t Summon one from the nearest Muggle town . Hermione squashed this plan by pointing out that in the unlikely event that Harry managed to learn how to operate an Aqua- Lung within the set limit of an hour, he was sure to be disqualified for breaking the International Code of Wizarding Secrecy .
Harry, Ron, and Hermione searched through lunchtimes, evenings, and weekends . Harry asked Professor McGonagall for a note of permission to use the Restricted Section . They found nothing that would enable Harry to spend an hour underwater . The lake, which Harry had always taken for granted as just another feature of the grounds, drew his eyes whenever he was near a classroom window .
Harry dully was so intent on telling Sirius all about Snape and Moody he had completely forgotten to mention the eggs clue . The momentary happiness that had flared inside him at the sight of the owl had died . “Come on... Care of Magical Creatures” Whether Hagrid was trying to make up for the Blast-Ended Skrewts or because there were now only two skrewties left .
Harry clapping a massive hand on his shoulder, so that Harry’s knees buckled under its weight, “Harry,” said Hagrid. “I’d’ve bin worried before I saw yeh take on tha Horntail, but I know now Yeh can do anythin’ y’eh set yer mind ter. Yeh’re goin ter win, Harry” Harry growled, patting Harrys shoulder again . By the evening before the second task
Harry s heart gave a huge leap every time he saw the word “water” on a page . “There’s nothing. Nothing. Closest was that thing to dry up puddles and ponds, that Drought Charm, but that was nowhere near powerful enough to drain the lake.” “They’d never have set a task that was undoable.” “There just has to be!” Hermione said crossly .
Professor McGonagall told us, remember... you’ve got to register yourself with the Improper Use of Magic Office... what animal you become, and your markings, so you can’t abuse it...” Hermione said, snapping shut Weird Wizarding Dilemmas and Their Solutions . “I know I haven’t got a chance of turning into a frog by tomorrow morning...”
Harry returned to the Gryffindor common room, pulled a table into a corner, and continued to search . There was nothing in Madcap Magic for Wacky Warlocks... nothing in A Guide to Medieval Sorcery... not one mention of underwater exploits in An Anthology of Eighteenth-Century Charms, or in Dreadful Denizens of the Deep, or Powers You Never Knew You Had and What to Do with Them Now Youve W
Harry pictured Bagman’s look of round-eyed surprise, Karkaroffs satisfied, yellow-toothed smile . He saw Malfoy flashing his POTTER STINKS badge at the front of the crowd, saw Hagrid s crestfallen, disbelieving face... Forgetting that Crookshanks was on his lap . “Lumos,” Harry whispered fifteen minutes later as he opened the library door .
“Harry Potter needs to hurry!” squeaked Dobby . “I’m not doing the task, I don’t know how-” Harry said hopelessly .
Dobby plucked at the shrunken maroon sweater he was now wearing over his shorts . “The thing Harry Potter will miss most, sir!” squeaked Harry, staring, horror-struck, at the elf .
“Dobby will be missed - good luck, Harry Potter, sir, good luck!” Harry shouted, and he sprinted along the corridor and down the stairs, three at a time . The entrance hall contained a few last-minute stragglers, all leaving the Great Hall after breakfast . They stared as Harry flashed past, sending Colin and Dennis Creevey flying as he leapt down the stone steps .
Ludo Bagman was now moving among the champions, spacing them along the bank at intervals of ten feet . Harry was on the very end of the line, next to Krum, who was wearing swimming trunks and was holding his wand ready . Bagman gave Harry’s shoulder a quick squeeze and returned to the judges’ table .
Harry shivered violently into the lake without showing any sign of magic power . The part of him that was still dry was covered in goose pimples, half immersed in the icy water, a cruel breeze lifting his hair . He swum so far into the water that he could no longer see the bottom .
He swam deeper and deeper, out toward the middle of the lake, his eyes wide, staring through the eerily gray-lit water around him . Small fish flickered past him like silver darts, but when he got nearer, he discovered it to be nothing but a large, blackened log, or a dense clump of weed . There was no sign of any of the other champions, merpeople, Ron - nor, thankfully, the giant s
Harry pulled his ankle out of the grindylows grip and swam, as fast as he could, occasionally sending more jets of hot water over his shoulder at random . Every now and then, he felt one of the snatch at his foot again, and he kicked out, hard . Harry slowed down a little, slipped his wand back inside his robes, and looked around, listening again .
Harry swam on past the rock, following the mersong . A cluster of crude stone dwellings stained with algae loomed suddenly out of the gloom on all sides . The merpeople had grayish skin and long, wild, dark green hair .
Four people were bound tightly to the tail of the stone merperson . Ron was tied between Hermione and Cho Chang . There was also a girl who looked no older than eight . Harry sped toward the hostages, half expecting the merpeople to lower their spears .
Ron floated, unconscious, a few inches above the lake bottom, drifting a little in the ebb of the water . He turned back to Hermione, raised the jagged rock, and began to hack at her bindings too . At once, several pairs of gray hands seized him . “You take your own hostage... leave the others...” said Harry furiously .
Harry watched Cedric pull a knife out of his pocket and cut Cho free . He pulled her upward and out of sight. Harry looked around, waiting. Where were Fleur and Krum? Time was getting short, and according to the song, the hostages would be lost after an hour .
Harry darted forward and began to hack at the ropes binding the small girl to the statue, and at last she was free . He seized the little girl around the waist, grabbed the neck of Rons robes, and kicked off from the bottom . It was very slow work. He could no longer use his webbed hands to propel himself forward; he worked his flippers furiously .
Harry kicked his legs so hard and fast it felt as though his muscles were screaming in protest; his very brain felt waterlogged, he couldn’t breathe . And then he felt his head break the surface of the lake; wonderful, cold, clear air was making his wet face sting; he gulped it down, feeling as though he had never breathed properly before . All around him, wild, green-haired heads were emerging out of the water with him, but they were smiling at him 
Dumbledore and Bagman stood beaming at Harry and Ron from the bank as they swam nearer, but Percy came splashing out to meet them . Madame Maxime tried to restrain Fleur Delacour, who was quite hysterical, fighting tooth and nail to return to the water .
Harry had the impression that Krum was drawing her attention back onto himself . Hermione brushed away the beetle impatiently and said, “You’re well outside the time limit, though, Harry... Did it take you ages to find us?” “No... I found you okay...” Harry was out of the water, it seemed perfectly clear that Dumbledores safety precautions wouldn’t have permitted the death of a hostage just because their champion hadn’t turned up .
Madam Pomfrey had gone to rescue Ron from Percy’s clutches . She led him over to Harry and the others, gave him a blanket and some Pepperup Potion . Fleur had many cuts on her face and arms and her robes were torn, but she didn’t seem to care .
Cedric Diggory was first to return with his hostage, though he returned one minute outside the time limit of an hour . "We therefore award him forty-seven points," Karkaroff continued .
The third and final task will take place at dusk on the twenty-fourth of June . Harry thought dazedly as Madam Pomfrey began herding the champions and hostages back to the castle to get into dry clothes... it was over, he had got through... he didn’t have to worry about anything now until June the twenty fourth . Ron noticed that his version of events changed subtly with every retelling .
The brown owl that Harry had sent to Sirius with the dates of the Hogsmeade weekend turned up at breakfast on Friday morning with half its feathers sticking up the wrong way . Harry had no sooner torn off Sirius’s reply than it took flight, clearly afraid it was going to be sent outside again . If he was honest with himself, he really wanted to see Sirius again.
Harry, Ron, and Ron headed for a table at the back of the dungeon as usual . Harry Potter thought he had found solace in his steady girlfriend at Hogwarts, Muggle-born Hermione Granger.
Viktor Krum has invited her to visit him in Bulgaria over the summer holidays . But it might not be Miss Granger’s doubtful natural charms that have captured these unfortunate boys’ interest . Harry Potter’s well-wishers must hope that next time he bestows his heart on a worthier candidate .
Hermione, Harry, and Ron started unpacking the ingredients they would need for their WitSharpening Potion . “You haven’t been mixing up Love Potions, have you?” She snapped, starting to pound up her beetles again .
Ron pounded his pestle down so hard that it dented the desk . The whole class was looking around at them; Malfoy took the opportunity to flash POTTER STINKS across the dungeon .
Harry threw his ingredients and his bag into his cauldron and dragged it up to the front of the dungeon to the empty table . Snape continued the mashing of his scarab beetles, imagining each one to have Snape’s face . He knew Snape was trying to provoke him; he had done this before .
Harry stared back at Snape, determined not to blink or to look guilty . Hermione had taken the boomslang skin back in their second year - they had needed it for the Polyjuice Potion .
Harry shook the crystal bottle slightly - right over your evening pumpkin juice . He turned back to his ginger roots once more, picked up his knife, and started slicing them again . There was a knock on the dungeon door .
Harry knocked over his bottle of armadillo bile with two minutes to go to the bell . “I want to talk to you after my lesson, Karkaroff,” Snape snapped. “You’ve been avoiding me.” “After the lesson, Severus.” Snape looked extremely worried, and Snape glanced at them. “What’s so urgent?” said Snape .
Harry threw his books and ingredients back into his bag and left at top speed to tell Ron and Hermione what he had just witnessed . The weather was milder than it had been all year, and by the time they arrived in Hogsmeade, all three of them had taken off their cloaks and thrown them over their shoulders . They had sneaked chicken legs, a loaf of bread, and a flask of pumpkin juice from the lunch table .
Sirius led them to the very foot of the mountain, where the ground was covered with boulders and rocks . They followed Sirius higher, up onto the mountain itself, following Sirius’s wagging tail, sweating in the sun, the shoulder straps of Harry’s bag cutting into his shoulders . Then, at last, Sirius slipped out of sight, and found themselves in a cool, dimly lit cave .
Sirius grinned up at Harry, but returned the grin only reluctantly . “I’ve been living off rats mostly. Can’t steal too much food from Hogsmeade; I’d draw attention to myself,” he said . There were two: The first bore the headline Mystery Illness of Bartemius Crouch .
Harry, Ron, and Hermione muttered to Sirius, casting Sirius a dark look . Sirius had started pacing up and down the cave in silence . “He says Crouch is suffering from overwork,” said Harry .
“I didn’t need to use it before we got in the forest. And then I put my hand in my pocket, and all that was in there were my Omnioculars.” Sirius stared at Sirius . “Winky did’t steal that wand!” Hermione insisted. “The elf wasn’t the only one in that box,” said Harry .
Sirius held up a hand to silence Ron . Sirius muttered, pacing up and down, “of course, he’d want to pin it on anyone but his own elf... and then he sacked her?” Sirius said . “Hermione, will you give it a rest with the elf!” said Ron.
Sirius, Ron, and Hermione shook their heads . “He’s a great wizard, Barty Crouch, powerfully magical - and power-hungry. Oh never a Voldemort supporter,” Sirius said . Sirius was tipped for the next Minister of Magic .
Sirius walked up the cave, back again, and said, “Imagine that Voldemort’s powerful now. You don’t know who’s working for him and who isn’t; you know he can control people so that they do terrible things without being able to stop themselves” Sirius smiled grimly . “Crouch’s son was caught?” gasped Hermione .
“No idea,” said Sirius, still stuffing down bread . “I was in Azkaban myself when he was brought in. This is mostly stuff I’ve found out since I got out. The boy was definitely caught in the company of people I’d bet my life were Death Eaters – but he might have been in the wrong place at the wrong time,” Hermione whispered .
Sirius threw aside the bread he had just lifted to his mouth . The dementors buried him outside the fortress; I watched them do it . “Most go mad in there, and plenty stop eating in the end,” Sirius said .
Crouch's eyes had bulged as he looked down at his disobedient house-elf back in the wood at the Quidditch World Cup . It had brought back memories of his son, and the old scandal, and his fall from grace at the Ministry . “I’ve heard it’s become a bit of a mania with him,” said Sirius, nodding .
“Oh give it a rest, Hermione,” Ron impatiently said . “I know Dumbledores brilliant and everything, but that doesn’t mean a really clever Dark wizard couldn’t fool him -” “Why did Snape save Harry’s life in the first year? Why didn’t he just let him die?” “What d’you think, Sirius?” Sirius asked .
Rosier and Wilkes were killed by Aurors the year before Voldemort fell . Avery wormed his way out of trouble by saying he’d been acting under the Imperius Curse . “Snape knows Karkaroff pretty well, but he wants to keep that quiet,” said Ron .
“I wouldn’t put it past Mad-Eye to have searched every single teacher’s office when he got to Hogwarts,” said Sirius slowly . “I’m not sure he trusts anyone at all, and after the things he’s seen, it’s not surprising.” I’ll say this for Moody, though, he never killed if he could help it .
“No one’s tried to attack me so far, except a dragon and a couple of grindylows,” said Sirius . “I don’t care... I’ll breathe freely again when this tournament’s over, and that’s not until June,” Sirius said .
Harry, Ron, and Hermione made their way back into Hogsmeade and up towards Hogwarts . They walked up the stone steps into the entrance hall, where the delicious smells of dinner wafted toward them from the Great Hall . "Poor old Snuffles," said Ron, breathing deeply .
“You saved my life with that gillyweed, Dobby, you really did,” said Harry . “You’ve just had breakfast!” said Hermione irritably, but a great silver platter of eclairs was already zooming toward them .
“Winky is pining, Harry Potter,” Dobby whispered sadly . “Hey, Winky,” said Harry, struck by a sudden inspiration . She swayed slightly again and then said, “M - Master is stopped - hic - coming?” Harry .
“You is - hic - nosing, you is.” “Winky must not talk like that to Harry Potter!” said Dobby angrily . “Harry Potter is brave and noble and Harry Potter is not nosy!” .
Harry, Ron, and Hermione shunted them out of the kitchen . He shoved a large ham, a dozen cakes, and some fruit into Harry’s arms . “You couldn’t keep your mouth shut, could you, Hermimione?” said Ron .
Harry leaned on the windowsill, looking out at the grounds, at the dark, rustling treetops of the Forbidden Forest . An eagle owl flew through the coil of smoke rising from Hagrids chimney . Madame Maxime emerged from the Beauxbatons carriage and walked over to Hagrid . She appeared to be trying to engage him in conversation .
Hermione took the letter from the gray owl, opening it, and starting to read . She thrust the letter at Harry, who saw that it was not handwritten, but composed from pasted letters that seemed to have been cut out of the Daily Prophet .
Hermione hurried out of the Great Hall, cradling her hands . She warned her not to annoy Rita Skeeter! Look at this one .
Harry's heart sank at the sight of the crates, but when he got near enough to see inside, he found himself looking at a number of flurry black creatures with long snouts . Their front paws were curiously flat, like spades, and they were blinking up at the class, looking politely puzzled at all the attention . “Yeh find ‘em down mines mostly. They like sparkly stuff... There yeh go,
The nifflers dived in and out of the patch of earth as though it were water, each scurrying back to the student who had released it and spitting gold into their hands . “I reckon they’ve nearly got the lot, now,” said Hagrid, grinning .
“Yeah, don’t worry,” said Hagrid gendy, looking shocked . “Yer mother killed innocent people an if you had any decency you d jump in a lake.’” “No!” said Hermione .
Harry and Hermione looked at each other, but neither knew what to say . Then, when Ron continued to look gloomy, she said, “I hate that Skeeter woman!” She burst out savagely . She followed Hagrid’s advice and stopped opening it, several of her ill-wishers sent Howlers .
Hermione hung back in their next Defense Against the Dark Arts lesson to ask Professor Moody something . Harry had such a bad case of Twitchy Ears, he had to hold his hands clamped over them as he walked away from the class . “Maybe she had you bugged,” said Ron blankly .
Rita’s using magic to eavesdrop, she must be... If I could just find out what it is... ooh, if it’s illegal, I’ll have her...“ Hermione asked her . “Do we have to start a vendetta against Rita Skeeter as well?” She marched back up the marble staircase without a backward glance .
Harry left Ron and Hermione in Gryffindor Tower and went downstairs . They walked down the dark lawn to Quidditch stadium, turned through a gap in the stands, and walked out onto the field . I have quite enough to do at the moment without trying to quash these ridiculous rumors.
Ludo Bagman was standing in the middle of the field with Krum and Fleur . Harry and Cedric made their way toward them, climbing over the hedges .
Bagman grinned at Harry and Cedric as they began to wend their way out of the growing maze . Harry and Krum left the stadium together, but Krum did not set a course for the Durmstrang ship . “Don’t vont to be overheard,” said Krum shortly .
Krum glowered at Krum, looking suspiciously at Harry . Harry shook his head, staring at the place where he’d seen movement . He slipped his hand inside his robes and pulled him around .
Suddenly a man staggered out from behind a tall oak . He looked as though he had been traveling for days . The knees of his robes were ripped and bloody, his face scratched . Mr. Crouch was unshaven and gray with exhaustion .
Harry looked around at Krum, who had followed him into the trees . “I need... see... Dumbledore!” gasped Mr. Crouch . He reached out and seized a handful of Harrys robes, dragging him closer .
“I’ll get Dumbledore, I’ll be quicker, I know where his office is -” Harry said to Krum. “He is mad,” said Krum doubtfully, staring down at Crouch . “Don’t... leave... me!” Harry whispered .
Harry tore up the stone steps, through oak front doors, and off up the marble staircase, toward the second floor . Five minutes later he was hurtling toward a stone gargoyle standing halfway along an empty corridor . “Sher - sherbet lemon!” Harry panted at it . This was the password to the hidden staircase to Dumbledore’s office .
“I’ve got to tell Dumbledore!” Harry could tell Snape was thoroughly enjoying himself, denying Harry the thing he wanted when he was so panicky . “Look,” said Harry angrily, “He’s - he’s out of his mind – he says he wants to warn -” The stone wall behind Snape slid open .
Harry and Dumbledore hurried forward. Krum was sprawled on the forest floor . He bent over Krum and gently lifted one of his eyelids . “Should I go and get someone?” said Harry .
Harry saw something silvery dart out of it and streak away through the trees like a ghostly bird . Then Dumbledore bent over Krum again, pointed his wand at him, and muttered, “Ennervate.” He looked dazed. “The old madman attacked me!” Krum put a hand on his shoulder and made him lie still .
“I’m onto it,” growled Moody, and he pulled out his wand and limped off into the forest . “What’s going on?” Krum cried when he saw Krum on the ground and Dumbledore and Harry beside him .
Karkaroff slid all the way down the trunk and slumped in a huddle at its roots . “You will take Harry back to school, Hagrid,” said Dumbledore sharply .
“How dare he accuses Dumbledore. Like Dumbleredore’d do anythin’ like that.” Hagrid suddenly said angrily to Harry, who looked up at him . “He wasn’t trying to jinx me, he just wanted to talk about Hermione -” said Harry as they climbed the steps into the entrance hall .
“I don’t think so,” said Harry, shaking his head . “You can’t Disapparate on the Hogwarts grounds, haven’t I told you enough times?” said Hermione .
“He was having real trouble stringing two words together, but that was when he seemed to know where he was, and know what he wanted to do.” Harry turned away from the window and stared up into the rafters . “Maybe he didn’t want you to get there!” said Harry quickly .
Harry, Ron, and Hermione froze at the sight of Harry and Ron . The Owlery door banged open . Fred and George came over the threshold . “What, at this time?” Ron said .
“You’re starting to sound a bit like our dear older brother, you are, Ron. Carry on like this and you’ll be made a prefect.” “No, I won’t!” said George hotly . Harry, Ron, and Hermione stared at one another . “I thought they were only saying it to annoy Mum, but they really mean it,” said Ron .
“I dunno... they don’t exactly mind breaking rules... They’ll get a lot more than blackmail! Ron... maybe you’d better tell Percy...” He stared at the window through which Fred and George’s owl had departed . “D’you think it’s too early to go and see Professor Moody?” Hermione said as they went down the spiral staircase .
“Did you find him?” Harry asked without preamble . “Of course,” said Moody, taking a swig from his flask . „You can’t Disapparate on the grounds, Ron!” said Hermione .
“You two,” counseled Moody, his normal eye on Ron and Hermione . “You stick close to Potter, all right? I’m keeping an eye on things, but all the same... you can never have too many eyes out.”
Sirius sent their owl back the next morning, clutching a copy of the Daily Prophet in its beak . She joined Ron and Harry in reading what Sirius had to say on the mysterious events of the night before last night . It is clear to me that they wanted to stop Crouch from seeing Dumbledore . You could have been killed. Your name didn’t get into the Goblet of Fire by accident .
Sirius is right, and someone Stunned Krum to kidnap Crouch . “They couldn’t have made it look like an accident if they’d murdered you in the forest!” said Hermione .
Ron suggested on Monday lunchtime as he lay flat on his back in the middle of their Charms classroom . “Let’s Stun her for a bit. Or you could use Dobby, Harry, I bet he’d do anything to help you. I’m not complaining or anything” - he got gingerly to his feet, rubbing his backside .
Harrys head swam as he made his way over to one of the curtained windows . The fumes from the perfumed fire were heavier than ever . Professor Trelawney was looking the other way, disentangling her shawl from a lamp .
Harry was riding on the back of an eagle owl, soaring through the clear blue sky toward an old, ivycovered house set high on a hillside . Lower and lower they flew, the wind blowing pleasantly in Harry’s face, until they reached a dark and broken window in the upper story of the house . “My Lord, I am... I am so pleased... and so sorry...” The cold voice, “perhaps one more little reminder why I will not tolerate another 
Harry was lying on the floor of Professor Trelawney’s room with his hands over his face . His scar was still burning so badly that his eyes were watering . The whole class was standing around him, and Ron was kneeling next to him .
Harry walked right past the stone gargoyle guarding the entrance to Dumbledores office without noticing . He blinked, looked around, realized what he had done, and retraced his steps, stopping in front of it . “I really need to see him, its urgent!” Harry yelled angrily, standing on one leg .
“I was only joking...” He hurried through the gap in the walls and stepped onto the foot of a spiral stone staircase . It moved slowly upward as the doors closed behind him, taking him up to a polished oak door with a brass door knocker . “Ludo says Berthas perfectly capable of getting herself lost. All the same, we’ve no evidence of foul play, Dumbledore, none at all!” said Moody’s growling voice .
“I think it is possible that it is you who are prejudiced, Cornelius.” “Can we wrap up this discussion?” growled Moody . “No, it’s not that,” said Moody, “it’s just that Potter wants a word with you, Dumbledore.” “Come in, then.” Harry walked inside. “We were just talking about the night when Mr. Crouch turned up on the grounds,” said Fudge .
Professor Dumbledore's phoenix was standing on his golden perch beside the door . He swished his long tail and blinked benignly at Harry . For several minutes, he sat and watched the old headmasters snoozing in their frames .
Harry looked up at the walls behind the desk . A glass case next to it held a magnificent silver sword with large rubies set into the hilt . The sword had once belonged to Godric Gryffindor, founder of Harry’s House .
The silvery substance had become transparent; it looked like glass . He looked down into it expecting to see the stone bottom of the basin . The room was dimly lit; there were no windows, merely torches in brackets .
Harry looked up at the high stone ceiling, expecting to see the circular window through which he had just been staring, but there was nothing there but dark, solid stone . Not one of the witches and wizards in the room seemed to have noticed that a fourteen-year-old boy had just dropped from the ceiling into their midst . He turned to the wizard next to him and uttered a loud cry of surprise that reverberated around the silent room .
Dumbledore was inside a memory, and it couldn’t be that long ago . The room, as he had suspected when observing it from above, was almost certainly underground - more of a dungeon than a room, he thought . There were no pictures on the walls, no decorations at all .
Unlike Dumbledore, Karkaroff looked much younger; his hair and goatee were black . He was not dressed in sleek furs, but in thin and ragged robes . Harry looked around and saw Mr. Crouch standing up in the middle of the bench beside him .
“You say you have names for us, Karkaroff,” said Mr. Crouch . “I - I do,” muttered Moody. “Let us hear them, please.”
“I - I saw him torture countless Muggles and - and nonsupporters of the Dark Lord.” “And helped him do it,” murmured Moody. “We have already apprehended Dolohov,” said Crouch, his eyes widening . “Why, yes... there was Rosier,” said Krouch hurriedly .
Mr. Crouch, nodding to a witch sitting in front of him, began scribbling upon her piece of parchment . “Very well, Karkaroff, if that is all, you will be returned to Azkaban while we decide -” Harry could see him sweating in the torchlight .
Harry was sitting in a different seat, still on the highest bench, but now to the left side of Mr. Crouch . The atmosphere seemed quite different: relaxed, even cheerful . Harry noticed a witch halfway up the rows of benches opposite . She had short blonde hair, was wearing magenta robes, and was sucking the end of an acid-green quill .
“You never spoke a truer word, boy,” someone muttered dryly to Dumbledore behind Harry . “If I didn’t know he’d always been dim, I’d have said some of those Bludgers had permanently affected his brain,” said Mr. Crouch . There were titters from the crowd .
The dungeon was ringing with applause now. Mr. Crouch spat at Dumbledore, sitting down as Bagman walked out . There was total silence, broken only by the dry sobs of a frail, wispy-looking witch . The door in the corner opened yet again.
The dementors placed each of the four people in the four chairs with chained arms . There was a thickset man who stared blankly up at Crouch; a thinner and more nervous-looking man, whose eyes were darting around the crowd; and a boy in his late teens, who looked nothing short of petrified . The wispy little witch beside Crouch began to rock backward and forward in her seat whimpering into her handkerchief .
“You are further accused,” bellowed Mr. Crouch, of using the Cruciatus Curse on Frank Longbottom’s wife, when he would not give you information . “Mother!” screamed the boy below, and the wispy little witch beside Crouch began to sob, rocking backward and forward . In unison, the witches and wizards along the right-hand side of the dungeon raised their hands . The crowd began to clap
“You are no son of mine!” bellowed Mr. Crouch, his eyes bulging suddenly . “Take them away!” Crouch roared at the dementors, spit flying from his mouth . The contents had returned to their original, silvery-white state .
“I sometimes find, and I am sure you know the feeling, that I simply have too many thoughts and memories crammed into my mind.” “Er,” said Harry, who couldn’t truthfully say that he had ever felt anything of the sort . “At these times,” said Dumbledore, indicating the stone basin, “I use the Pensieve. One simply siphons the excess thoughts from one’s mind, pours them into the basin, and examine them at one's leisure.”
Harry mumbled over the top of his half-moon spectacles at Snape . “I’m sorry,” Dumbledore shook his head. “Curiosity is not a sin,” he said .
“Well, I had a dream about Lord Voldemort. He was torturing Wormtail... you know who Wormham-” Dumbledore merely looked at him . “I see. Now, has your scar hurt at any other time this year, except the time it woke you up over the summer?” said Harry .
“I have also been in contact with him ever since he left Hogwarts last year. It was I who suggested the mountainside cave as the safest place for him to stay.” Every now and then, he placed his wand tip to his temple, removed another shining silver thought, and added it to the Pensieve . The thoughts inside began to swirl so fast that Harry couldn’t make out anything clearly: It was merely a blur of color .
Dumbledore looked older, and wearier, than ever . Bertha Jorkins has vanished without a trace in the place where Voldemort was known to be last . Mr. Crouch too has disappeared... within these very grounds .
“I attended it many times, but some trials come back to me more clearly than others... particularly now...” Harry shook his head, wondering, as he did so, how he could have failed to ask Neville this, in almost four years of knowing him .
Harry sat in silence once more, watching the contents of the Pensieve . “Right,” said Harry hastily, staring at the contents, which were swirling more slowly . Dumbledore glanced down into it, and then up at Harry. “No more has Professor Snape,” he said .
Harry, Ron, and Hermione sat up late in the common room that night . Harry thought he saw Ron shiver slightly, even though the evening was warm . “He really trusts Snape,” Ron said. “I’m not worrying about her now?” Ron said .
Harry and Ron went slowly upstairs to their dormitory . As Harry pulled on his pajamas, he looked over at Nevilles bed . He thought Neville deserved it more than he did .
Ron and Hermione were supposed to be studying for their exams, which would finish on the day of the third task . They were putting most of their efforts into helping Harry prepare . Harry had managed to find his way past monstrous creatures and enchanted barriers .
Harry had mastered the Impediment Curse, a spell to slow down and obstruct attackers . Harry was still having trouble with the Shield Charm, though . Malfoy, Crabbe, and Goyle were standing in the shadow of a tree below .
Sirius was sending daily owls now, bringing Harry a good-luck card from Sirius . He reminded Harry that whatever might be going on outside the walls of Hogwarts was not Harry’s responsibility, nor was it within his power to influence it . If Voldemort is really getting stronger again, he wrote, my priority is to ensure your safety .
Draco Malfoy was holding a copy of the Daily Prophet too . Harry turned it over and found himself staring at his own picture . The boy who defeated He-Who-Must-Not-Be-Named is unstable and possibly dangerous .
The Daily Prophet has unearthed worrying facts about Harry Potter . “Potter can speak Parseltongue,” reveals Draco Malfoy, a Hogwarts fourth year . The ability to converse with snakes has long been considered a Dark Art .
Hermione seized her school bag and dashed out of the Great Hall . Harry had been sitting in the back of every exam class so far . “You’re the one who’s supposed to be researching magical methods of bugging!” said Harry .
Professor McGonagall came walking alongside the Gryffindor table toward him . Harry accidentally spilled scrambled eggs down his front, fearing he mistaken the time . "The Dursleys are congregating in the chamber off the Hall after breakfast," she said .
Harry walked across the Hall and opened the door into the chamber . He had inherited his dark-haired mother and father in rapid Bulgarian . Fleur’s sister, Gabrielle, was jabbering away in French to her mother . She waved at Harry, who waved back, grinning .
“Your father and I had been for a nighttime stroll,” said Bill . “He got caught by Apollyon Pringle - he was the caretaker in those days,” said Harry .
Mrs. Weasley was intrigued by the Whomping Willow, which had been planted after she had left school . Harry asked as they walked around the greenhouses, reminisced at length about the gamekeeper before Hagrid, a man called Ogg .
Harry had a brainwave about Rita Skeeter in Witch Weekly . “Hello, Hermione,” said Mrs. Weasley, much more stiffly than usual .
The Weasleys and Hermione all wished him good luck . They walked onto the Quidditch field, which was now completely unrecognizable . The sky was a deep, clear blue now, and the first stars were starting to appear .
Hagrid whispered, and the four of them walked away in different directions, to station themselves around the maze . The cheers and applause sent birds from the Forbidden Forest fluttering into the darkening sky . “The third and final task of the Triwizard Tournament is about to begin! Let me remind you how the points currently stand!
Harry heard Bagman’s whistle for the second time. Krum had entered the maze. He turned right, and hurried on, holding his wand high over his head, trying to see as far ahead as possible . The maze was growing darker with every passing minute as the sky overhead deepened to navy .
Harry shook his head and dived out of sight, along another path . Then, as he turned a corner, he saw a silver stag gliding toward him . He felt clammy coldness stealing over him, but knew what he had to do... He summoned the happiest thought he could, concentrated with all his might on the thought of getting out of the maze and celebrating with Ron and Hermione .
Harry was hanging from the ground, with his hair on end, his glasses dangling off his nose, threatening to fall into the bottomless sky . It felt as though his feet were glued to the grass, which had now become the ceiling . He had two choices - try and move, or send up red sparks, and get disqualified from the task .
Harry paused at a junction of two paths and looked around for some sign of Fleur . He was sure it had been she who had screamed, or was she in such trouble that she couldn’t reach her wand? The cup was somewhere close by, and it sounded as though Fleur was no longer in the running .
Harry pushed himself away from it and ran, hard, in the opposite direction . He took a left path and hit a dead end, a right, and hit another; forcing himself to stop, heart hammering, he performed the Four-Point Spell again .
Harry and Cedric stood there in the darkness for a moment, looking around them . Then Harry said, “Well... I s’pose we’d better go on...” “What?” said Harry. “Oh... yeah... right...” It was an odd moment.
Harry moved on, continuing to use the Four-Point Spell, making sure he was moving in the right direction . It was between him and Cedric now, but he could hardly believe what he’d just seen Krum do . The use of an Unforgivable Curse on a fellow human being meant a life term in Azkaban, that was what Moody had told them . Every so often he hit more dead ends, but the increasing darkness made him feel sure 
The sphinx sat down upon her hind legs, in the very middle of the path, and recited: “First think of the person who lives in disguise, Who deals in secrets and tells naught but lies.” Next, tell me what’s always the last thing to mend, The middle of middle and end of the end? And finally give me the sound often heard During the search for a hard-to-find word .
"Er... that’d be... er... hang on - ‘er’! Er’s a sound!” said Harry, pacing up and down . “A creature I wouldn’t want to kiss... a spider!” The sphinx smiled more broadly . He was amazed at his own brilliance, and he dashed forward .
Harry saw Cedric’s wand fly out of his hand as a gigantic spider stepped into the path and began to bear down upon him . “Stupefy!” Harry yelled; the spell hit the spider’s gigantic, hairy black body, but for all the good it did, he might as well have thrown a stone at it; the spider jerked, scuttled around, and ran at Harry instead . The Disarming Spell made the spider drop him
Harry panted to Cedric, who was standing feet from the Triwizard Cup . He leaned against the hedge, gasping for breath, and looked around at Harry again . "You take it. You should win. That’s twice you’ve saved my neck in here," Harry said .
"You helped me with the egg - we’re still square," said Cedric . "You should’ve got more points on the second task," said Harry mulishly . He stepped over the spider’s tangled legs to join Harry, who stared at him .
He grabbed Harrys arm below the shoulder and helped Harry limp toward the plinth where the cup stood . When they had reached it, they both held a hand out over one of the cup’s gleaming handles . Instantly, Harry felt a jerk somewhere behind his navel . His feet had left the ground; his injured leg gave way; his hand let go of the Triwizard Cup at last .
Harry lowered his wand slightly and glanced sideways at Cedric . It stopped beside a towering marble headstone, only six feet from them . And then, without warning, Harry’s scar exploded with pain .
A blast of green light blazed through Harry’s eyelids, and he heard something heavy fall to the ground beside him . The pain in his scar reached such a pitch that he retched, and then it diminished . Harry stared into Cedric’s face, blank and expressionless as the windows of a deserted house .
Harry couldn’t make a sound, nor could he see where Wormtail had gone . Harry’s wand was on the ground at the foot of the grave . The bundle of robes that Harry had thought was a baby was close by . It seemed to be stirring fretfully . He watched it, and his scar seared with pain again .
The liquid in the cauldron seemed to heat very fast . Steam was thickening, blurring the outline of Wormtail tending the fire . The movements beneath the robes became more agitated . Harry let out a yell strangled in the wad of material blocking his mouth .
Wormtail lowered the creature into the cauldron; there was a hiss, and it vanished below the surface . His voice shook; he seemed frightened beyond his wits . He pulled a long, shining silver dagger from inside his cloak .
Harry couldn’t stand to look... but the light of it shone through Harry’s closed eyelids... Wormtail was gasping and moaning with agony . Harry could do nothing to prevent it, he was tied too tightly... Squinting down, struggling hopelessly at the ropes binding him, so that a dribble of blood fell into it . The liquid within turned, instantly, a blinding white .
a surge of white steam billowed thickly from the cauldron instead, obliterating everything in front of Harry, so that he couldn’t see Wormtail or Cedric hanging in the air... It’s gone wrong, he thought... it’s drowned... please... please let it be dead... But then, through the mist in front he saw, with an icy surge of terror, the dark outline of a man, tall and skeletally thin, rising slowly from inside
Voldemort looked away from Harry and began examining his own body . His hands were like large, pale spiders; his white fingers caressed his own chest, his arms, his face; the red eyes, whose pupils were slits, gleamed still more brightly through the darkness . He held up his hands and flexed the fingers, his expression rapt and exultant .
“It is back,” he said softly, “they will all have noticed it... and now, we shall see... now we shall know...” Harry pressed his white forefinger to the brand on Wormtail’s arm . A look of cruel satisfaction on his face, Voldemort straightened up, threw back his head, and stared around at the dark graveyard . “How many will be brave enough to return when they feel it?” Harry whispered, his gleaming red
The Death Eaters behind him did the same; each of them approaching Voldemort on his knees and kissing his robes, before backing away and standing up, forming a silent circle, which enclosed Tom Riddle s grave, Harry, Harry . But they left gaps in the circle, as though waiting for more people .
“I see you all, whole and healthy, with your powers intact - such prompt appearances! And I ask myself... why did this band of wizards never come to the aid of their master?” Voldemort whispered, “they must have believed me broken, they thought I was gone.” They slipped back among my enemies, and they pleaded innocence, and ignorance, and bewitchment... “And then I asked myself, but how could they have believed I would not rise again? They, who knew the steps
Lord Voldemort raised his wand again and whirled it through the air . He flexed the shining fingers, then picked up a small twig on the ground and crushed it into powder . “My Lord... never, my Lord...” He scrambled forward on his knees .
Wormtail stood up and took his place in the circle, staring at his new hand . “Lucius, my slippery friend,” he whispered, halting before him . „Your exploits at the Quidditch World Cup were fun, I daresay... but might not your energies have been better directed toward finding and aiding your master?” Lucius Malfoy’s voice swiftly from beneath the hood .
Lord Voldemort walked past a stooped figure in Mr. Goyles shadow . The Death Eaters stirred, and Harry saw their eyes dart sideways at one another through their masks . He paused before others and spoke to them . “You shall have better victims than that soon, Macnair?” he murmured .
The Death Eater to the right of Wormtail stepped forward . Lucius Malfoy’s voice spoke from under the mask . Voldemort walked lazily over to stand next to Harry, so that the eyes of the whole circle were upon the two of them .
My curse was deflected by the woman’s foolish sacrifice, and it rebounded upon myself . I was ripped from my body, I was less than spirit, less than the meanest ghost... but still, I wasn't alive . My goal - to conquer death - was to overcome death . And now, it appeared that one or more of my experiments had worked .
The Death Eaters were quite motionless, the glittering eyes in their masks fixed upon Voldemort, and upon Harry . "The servant died when I left his body, and I was left as weak as ever I had been," Harry continued . One or two of the masked wizards in the circle moved uncomfortably .
Bertha Jorkins was a witch from the Ministry of Magic . He overpowered her... he brought her to me . She told me that the Triwizard Tournament would be played at Hogwarts .
Wormtail's body was ill adapted for possession, as all assumed him dead . However, he was the able-bodied servant I needed, and was able to follow the instructions I gave him, which would return me to a rudimentary, weak body of my own . I was soon returned to an almost human form, and strong enough to travel .
Dumbledore invoked an ancient magic, to ensure the boy’s protection as long as he is in his relations’ care . Then, there was the Quidditch World Cup... I thought his protection might be weaker there, away from his relations . But I was not yet strong enough to attempt kidnap in the midst of a horde of Ministry wizards . Use my Death Eater to ensure that the boy's name was entered into the Goblet of Fire 
"You see, I think, how foolish it was to suppose that this boy could ever have been stronger than me," said Voldemort . He will be allowed to fight, and you will be left in no doubt which of us is the stronger. Just a little longer, Nagini," he whispered .
Harry had never learned anything that could fit him for this . He knew he was facing the thing against which Moody had always warned... the unblockable Avada Kedavra curse – and Voldemort was right - his mother was not here to die for him this time... He was quite unprotected... “We bow to each other... Bow to death, Harry...” The Death Eaters laughed harder than ever .
Harry rolled over and scrambled to his feet; he was shaking as uncontrollably as Wormtail had done when his hand had been cut off . He was going to die like Cedric, those pitiless red eyes were telling him so... he wasn’t going to play along . Harry felt, for the third time in his life, the sensation that his mind had been wiped of all thought... Ah, it was bliss, not to think... it was as though he were floating, dream
Harry, obedience is a virtue I need to teach you before you die... Perhaps another little dose of pain? Harry, with the reflexes born of his Quidditch training, he flung himself sideways onto the ground . Harry crouched behind the headstone and knew the end had come . There was no hope... no help to be had .
Harry and Voldemort were both being raised into the air, their wands still connected by that thread of shimmering golden light . The Death Eaters were shouting; they were asking Harry for instructions . They were closing in, reforming the circle around Harry .
Harry saw his red eyes wide with astonishment at what was happening, saw him fighting to break the thread of light still connecting his wand with Harry’s . The sound was coming from every thread of the light-spun web vibrating around Harry and Harry . It was the sound of hope to Harry... the most beautiful and welcome thing he had ever heard in his life: phoenix song .
Harry concentrated every last particle of his mind upon forcing the bead back into Voldemort s wand... and slowly... very slowly... it moved along the golden thread... it trembled for a moment... and then it connected... It was a head... now a chest and arms... the torso of Cedric Diggory . It emerged in its entirety from the end, as though it were squeezing itself out of a very narrow tunnel... and this shade of Ce
Harry looked at Voldemort... his wide red eyes were still shocked... and very dimly Harry heard the frightened yells of the Death Eaters, prowling around the edges of the golden dome... More screams of pain from the wand... and then something else emerged from its tip... a dense shadow of a second head, quickly followed by arms and torso... an old man Harry had seen only in a dream was now pushing himself out of the end of .
Voldemort’s dead victims whispered words of encouragement to Harry, and hissed words Harry couldn’t hear to Harry . The smoky shadow of a tall man with untidy hair fell to the ground as Bertha had done, straightened up, and looked at him... and Harry, his arms shaking madly now, looked back into the ghostly face of his father . “When the connection is broken, we will linger for only moments... you must get to the Portkey,
Harry ran as he had never run in his life, knocking two stunned Death Eaters aside . He zigzagged behind headstones, feeling their curses following him . The phoenix song died, but the shadowy figures of Voldemort’s victims did not disappear .
Harry saw his mouth curl into a smile, saw him raise his wand at the Triwizard Cup . It flew into the air and soared toward him . He heard Voldemort scream of fury at the same moment that he felt the jerk behind his navel .
“Harry! Harry!” He opened his eyes. He was looking up at the starry sky, and Albus Dumbledore was crouched over him . The dark shadows of a crowd of people pressed in around them, pushing nearer . He could see the stands rising above him, the shapes of people moving in them, the stars above. “He’s back. Voldemort.” “What’s going on? What’s happened?” The face of Cornelius Fudge appeared upside down
Harry swayed. His head was pounding. His leg would no longer support his weight . The crowd around them jostled, pressing darkly in on him . “He’s ill, he’s injured – Dumbledore, Diggory’s parents, they’re in the stands... He’s coming over... Don’t you think you should tell him - before he sees -?” Harry said .
Mad-Eye Moody took stuff from his father’s grave, and from Wormtail, and me . Harry's head felt clearer; his scar wasn’t hurting so badly; he could now see Harry face distinctly .
“What did the Dark Lord take from you?” said Harry . “And the Death Eaters? They returned?” Harry asked quietly. “Did he forgive them?” Harry tried to get up, but Moody pushed him back down .
“The Death Eaters who went free? The ones who escaped Azkaban?” said Harry. “I asked you,” said Moody quietly, “whether he forgave the scum who never even went to look for him. The faithless bits of filth who were brave enough to cavort in masks at the Quidditch World Cup, but fled at the sight of the Dark Mark when I fired it into the sky.” “I told you... I told you. If there’s one thing I hate
Harry had to use every ounce of cunning I possess, so that my hand would not be detectable in your success . The second task... that was when I was most afraid we would fail. Decent people are so easy to manipulate, Potter. I was sure Cedric would want to repay you for telling him about the dragons, and so so so he did. But even then, Potter, even then you seemed likely to fail.
Moodys wand was still pointing directly at Harry’s heart . Over his shoulder, foggy shapes were moving in the Foe-Glass . Harry could see the outlines of three people over Moody’s shoulder, moving closer and closer .
Moody's normal eye was bulging, the magical eye fixed upon Harry . Harry had very disappointing fathers... very disappointing indeed . Both of us suffered the indignity, Harry, of being named after those fathers .
Harry understood for the first time why people said Dumbledore was the only wizard Voldemort had ever feared . He stepped into the office, placed a foot underneath Moody’s unconscious body, and kicked him over onto his back, so that his face was visible . Snape followed him, looking into the Foe-Glass, where his own face was still visible, glaring into the room.
Dumbledore walked over to the trunk with seven locks, fitted the first key in the lock, and opened it again . The spellbooks had vanished; this time it contained an assortment of broken Sneako-scopes, some parchment and quills, and what looked like a silvery Invisibility Cloak . He placed the third, fourth, fifth, and sixth keys in their respective locks, reopening the trunk each time .
Dumbledore covered Moody in the cloak, tucked it around him, and clambered out of the trunk again . Then he picked up the hip flask that stood upon the desk, unscrewed it, and turned it over . A thick glutinous liquid splattered onto the office floor .
Harry saw a man lying before him, pale-skinned, slightly freckled, with a mop of fair hair . He knew who he was. He had seen him in Dumbledore’s Pensieve . Professor McGonagall stopped dead and staring down at the man on the floor .
Snape handed Dumbledore a bottle of completely clear liquid . Winky remained on her knees, trembling, her hands over her face . Crouch took a deep breath, then began to speak in a flat, expressionless voice .
Dementors are blind. They sense one healthy, one dying person entering Azkaban . My father smuggled me out, disguised as my mother, in case any prisoners were watching through their doors . "My mother died a short while afterward. She was careful to drink Polyjuice Potion until the end. Everyone believed her to be me"
Bertha Jorkins heard Winky talking to her. She came to investigate . He put a very powerful Memory Charm on her to make her forget what she’d found out . “Tell me about the Quidditch World Cup,” said Dumbledore .
I had not been allowed a wand since before Azkaban. I stole it. Winky didn’t know. “Master Barty, you bad boy!” whispered Winky, tears trickling between her fingers . I wanted to attack Death Eaters for their disloyalty to my master .
"When Winky was discovered, my father knew I must be nearby. He searched the bushes where she had been found and felt me lying there," Winky let out a wail of despair . "Now it was just Father and I, alone in the house. And then... and then..." Crouch’s head rolled on his neck, and an insane grin spread across his face .
"I was very quick. My father was placed under the Imperius Curse by my master," said Dumbledore . He told me he needed to place a faithful servant at Hogwarts . A servant who would guide Harry Potter through the Triwizard Cup without appearing to do so .
Moody put up a struggle. There was a commotion. We managed to subdue him just in time. I drank it; I became Moody’s double. I made the dustbins move around the yard . I kept Moody alive, under the Imperius Curse .
My master decided it was no longer safe for my father to leave the house . He forced him to send letters to the Ministry instead. He made him write and say he was ill . My father escaped. My master guessed that he had smuggled me from Azkaban .
I walked back out of the forest, doubled around behind them, went to meet them . I told Dumbledore Snape had told me to go and look for my father . There was complete silence now except for Winky’s continued sobs .
“Severus” - Dumbledore turned to Snape - "please tell Madam Pomfrey to come down here; we need to get him into the hospital wing" Harry got up and swayed again; the pain in his leg, which he had not noticed all the time he was listening to Crouch, now returned in full measure . He didn’t want to have to examine the memories, fresh and sharp as photographs .
Dumbledore and Harry went up the staircase to the oak door . Sirius was standing there. His face was white and gaunt as it had been when he had escaped Azkaban . He began to tell Sirius everything Barty Crouch had said . There was a soft rush of wings .
The phoenix let out one soft, quavering note. It shivered in the air, and Harry felt as though a drop of hot liquid had slipped down his throat into his stomach . He took a deep breath and began to tell them . It was even a relief; he felt almost as though something poisonous were being extracted from him .
Harry thought he saw a gleam of something like triumph in Dumbledore’s eyes . But next second Harry looked as old and weary as Harry had ever seen him . Then he explained how Voldemort had emerged from the cauldron .
“Exactly,” said Dumbledore. “My wand’s feather came from Fawkes?” Harry said . “I am guessing other such forms appeared...” “An old man,” Harry said, his throat still constricted .
Sirius’s grip on Harry’s shoulder was now so tight it was painful . Harry described how the figures that had emerged from the wand had prowled the edges of the golden web, how Voldemort had seemed to fear them . At this point Harry found that he could not continue . The phoenix had fluttered to the floor .
Harry, Dumbledore, and hermione grouped around a harassed-looking Madam Pomfrey . They appeared to be demanding to know where Harry was and what had happened to him . Mrs. Weasley let out a kind of muffled scream. “Harry! Oh Harry!” She started to hurry toward him, but he moved between them . What he needs now is sleep, and peace, and quiet .
Madam Pomfrey gave Harry some pajamas and pulled screens around him . He took off his robes, pulled on the pajams, and got into bed . Harry woke up so warm, so very sleepy, that he didn’t open his eyes, wanting to drop off again .
Mrs. Weasley was on her feet. “That’s Fudge’s voice,” she whispered. “You should never have brought it inside the castle!” yelled Professor McGonagall. “When Dumbledore finds out -” Harry heard the hospital doors burst open . “Why are you disturbing these people? Minerva, I’m surprised at you - I asked you to stand guard over Barty Crouch!” she shrieked.
“I told him you would never allow dementors to set foot inside the castle, but -” “My dear woman!” roared Fudge, who looked angrier than Harry had ever seen him . “By all accounts, he is no loss!” blustered Fudge. “He was a raving lunatic! From what Minerva and Severus have told me, He seems to have thought he was doing it all on You-Know-Who’s instructions!”
Fudge looked as though someone had just swung a heavy weight into his face . He began to sputter, still goggling at Dumbledore . “You - you can’t seriously believe that You-Know-Who - back? Come now, come now... certainly, Crouch has helped Voldemort to return?” Harry said .
Fudge glanced at Harry, then looked back at Dumbledore . There was a moment’s silence, which was broken by Sirius growling . “Certainly, I believe Harry,” said Fudge . "You are prepared to believe that Lord Voldemort has returned, on the word of a lunatic murderer, and a boy who... well...” Fudge shot Harry another look .
Dumbledore seemed to radiate that indefinable sense of power that Harry had felt after Stunned young Crouch . “I believe it hurts him when Lord Voldemort is close by, or feeling particularly murderous,” Harry shouted . He tried to get out of bed again but Mrs. Weasley forced him back .
Harry couldn’t believe what he was hearing . But now a short, angry wizard stood before him, refusing, point-blank, to believe that Voldemort could have risen . “I’d be kicked out of office for suggesting it!” said Dumbledore .
“You - you cannot be serious!” Fudge gasped, shaking his head and retreating further from Dumbledore . “If the magical community got wind that I had approached the giants - people hate them, Dumblere - end of my career -” “You are blinded,” said Dumbleredore, his voice rising now, the aura of power around him palpable, his eyes blazing once more, “by the love of the office you hold, Cornelius!
“Now, see here, Dumbledore,” he said, waving a threatening finger . “I’ve given you free rein, always. I’ve had a lot of respect for you. There aren’t many who’d have let you hire werewolves, or keep Hagrid, or decide what to teach your students without reference to the Ministry. If you are against him, then we remain, Cornelius, on the same side.” It seemed Fudge could think of no answer to this 
“There. The Dark Mark.” It is not as clear as it was an hour or so ago, when it burned black, but you can still see it . When he touched the Mark of any Death Eater, we were to Disapparate, and Apparate, instantly, at his side . This Mark has been growing clearer all year. We both knew he had returned .
"Of course you can," said Mrs. Weasley . "I need to send a message to Arthur," said Dumbledore . “I’ll go to Dad,” said Bill, standing up .
Harry thought Dumbledore was asking for a near miracle . Sirius and Snape were eyeing each other with the utmost loathing . Time is short, and unless the few of us who know the truth do not stand united, there is no hope for any us .
Sirius, I need you to set off at once. You are to alert Remus Lupin, Arabella Figg, Mundungus Fletcher . “You’ll see me very soon. Harry,” said Dumbledore, turning to Snape, “you know what I must ask you to do. If you are ready... if you are prepared...” “I am,” said Snape .
"You have a good long sleep. Try and think about something else for a while... think about what you’re going to buy with your winnings!” Mrs. Weasley whispered . The thing against which he had been fighting was threatening to overpower him . He could feel a burning feeling in the inner corners of his eyes .
Harry fell back onto his pillows and thought no more . The worst was the meeting with the Diggorys that took place the following morning . They did not blame him for what had happened; on contrary, both thanked him for returning Cedric’s body to them .
Ron and Hermione told Harry about a meeting with Dumbledore before going home . He felt as though all three of them had reached an understanding they didn’t need to put into words . The only person apart from Harry felt able to talk to was Hagrid .
Harry, Ron, and Hermione looked up at him, shocked . “Knew he was goin’ ter come back,” said Hagrid . He strode out to meet them, pulled Harry into a one-armed hug, and ruffled his hair .
Hagrid's chest swelled as he looked at Harry . It was the first time he’d smiled in days . “I’m not s’pposed ter talk abou’ it, no, not even ter you lot,” Hagrid said .
Harry knew instantly that they were there as a mark of respect to Cedric . The real Mad-Eye Moody was at the staff table now, his wooden leg and his magical eye back in place . Moodys fear of attack was bound to have been increased by his ten-month imprisonment in his own trunk .
“There is much that I would like to say to you all tonight,” said Dumbledore . He gestured toward the Hufflepuffs, “enjoying our feast with us.” They did it, all of them . There were tears pouring silently down her face .
A kind of ripple crossed the Great Hall as a few heads turned in Harry’s direction before flicking back to face Dumbledore . Nearly everyone in the Hall followed suit. They murmured his name, as they had murmurured Cedric’s, and drank to him.
Harry saw that Malfoy, Crabbe, Goyle, and many other Slytherins had remained defiantly in their seats, their goblets untouched . Dumbledore looked from Madame Maxime and Hagrid, to Fleur Delacour and her fellow Beauxbatons students, to Viktor Krum and the Durmstrangs .
Harry's trunk was packed; Hedwig was back in her cage on top of it . Harry, Ron, and Hermione were waiting in the crowded entrance hall with the rest of the fourth years for the carriages that would take them back to Hogsmeade station . The thought gave him no pleasure at all .
Krum had come to say good-bye to Hermione, looking slightly flustered, and following Krum through the crowd . He let Harry keep a watch for the carriages, but spent the next few minutes craning his neck over the crowd to try and see what Krum might be up to .
Harry, Ron, and Hermione had managed to get a compartment to themselves . Pigwidgeon was once again hidden under Rons dress robes to stop him from hooting continually . It was less painful to discuss what had happened now .
“I found out how she was listening in on private conversations when she wasn’t supposed to be coming onto the grounds,” said Harry . “How was she doing it?” said Harry, perplexed. “Oh not electronic bugs,” said Hermione .
Rita was perched on the windowsill of the Divination class the day your scar hurt . “When we saw Malfoy under that tree...” said Ron slowly . Hermione took the glass jar back from Ron and smiled at the beetle .
Malfoy, Crabbe, and Goyle were all lying unconscious in the doorway . He, Ron, and Hermione were on their feet, all three of them having used a different hex . “Thought we’d see what those three were up to,” said Fred matter-of-factly .
Harry, Harry, and George kicked, rolled, and pushed the unconscious Malfoy, Crabbe, and Goyle out into the corridor, then came back into the compartment and rolled the door shut . “It doesn’t matter,” said Fred, shaking his head impatiently . „We’ve given up,” said George, shrugging .
“Ignored our letter. We kept trying to talk to him about it at Hogwarts,” said Fred glowering . “He didn’t refuse!” gasped Hermione . He’s lost everything gambling. Hasn’t got two Galleons to rub together.
The Hogwarts Express was pulling in at platform nine and three-quarters . The usual confusion and noise filled the corridors as the students began to disembark . “You’re mental,” said George, trying to push it back at Harry .
“Harry,” said Harry, grinning. “Think how many Canary Creams that is.” The twins stared at him . “Look,” Harry said flatly, “take it, or I’ll hex you. I know some good ones now. Just do me one favor, okay? Buy Ron some dress robes and say they’re from you.” “See you. Harry,” said Ron, clapping him on the back .
