EDDARD JON CATELYN ARYA BRAN TYRION JON DAENERYS A Game of Thrones BRAN CATELLYN A Game Of Thrones . JON SANSA TYROLYN JON A . BRAN GRAN GORGE JON BRAN SANA TYRALYN SANSA A YORK . ARY A BRAN JON SANA A TYRRION . SANA SANSA JON DON TY RION EDD
Gared urged as the woods began to grow dark around them . “The wildlings are dead.” “Do the dead frighten you?” Ser Waymar Royce asked .
Gared had spent forty years in the Night’s Watch, man and boy, and was not accustomed to being made light of. But it was more than that. Under the wounded pride, Will could sense something else in the older man . The first time he had been sent beyond, all the old stories had come rushing back, and his bowels had turned to water .
Ser Waymar Royce had been a Sworn Brother of the Night’s Watch for less than half a year . He wore black leather boots, black woolen pants, black moleskin gloves and a fine coat of gleaming black ringmail over layers of black wool and boiled leather . His cloak was his crowning glory; sable, thick and black and soft as sin .
Mallister freeriders had caught him red-handed in the Mallisters’ own woods . No one could move through the woods as silent as Will, and it had not taken the black brothers long to discover his talent . “The camp is two miles farther on, over that ridge, hard beside a stream,” Will said .
"I saw men freeze last winter, and the one before, when I was half a boy," Gared said . It steals up on you quieter than Will, and at first you shiver and your teeth chatter and you stamp your feet and dream of mulled wine and nice hot fires. It burns, it does. Nothing burns like the cold, but only for a while .
Gared glared at the lordling, the scars around his ear holes flushed red with anger . He pulled up his hood and hunched over his garron, silent and sullen . There never was a week when he did not draw a dozen bloody watches .
The cloudless sky turned a deep purple, the color of an old bruise, then faded to black . The moonlight ran down the shining steel . Will doubted it had ever been swung in anger .
Ser Waymar’s mouth became a hard line. “No fire.” Gared’s hood shadowed his face, but Will could see the hard glitter in his eyes as he stared at the knight. It was a short, ugly thing, its grip discolored by sweat, its edge nicked from hard use .
The great sentinel was right there at the top of the ridge, where Will had known it would be, its lowest branches a bare foot off the ground . For a moment he dared not breathe. Moonlight shone down on the clearing, the ashes of the firepit, the snow-covered lean-to, the great rock, the little half-frozen stream . “Gods!” Will whispered urgently. “Something’s wrong.” Royce did not move .
Fear filled his gut like a meal he could not digest . He whispered a prayer to the nameless gods of the wood, and slipped it free of its sheath . The taste of cold iron in his mouth gave him comfort .
The Other slid forward on silent feet . It was alive with moonlight, translucent, a shard of crystal so thin it seemed almost to vanish when seen edge-on . In that moment, Will thought, he was a boy no longer, but a man of the Night’s Watch .
Royce checked a second blow, and a third, then fell back a step . Behind him, all around him, the watchers stood patient, faceless, silent, the shifting patterns of their delicate armor making them all but invisible in the wood .
Swords rose and fell, all in a deathly silence. It was cold butchery. The pale blades sliced through ringmail as if it were silk . Will closed his eyes. Far beneath him, he heard their voices and laughter sharp as icicles .
Robb thought he was a wildling, his sword sworn to the King-beyond-the-Wall . It made Bran’s skin prickle to think of it . The wildlings were cruel men, slavers and slayers and thieves .
Robb and Jon sat tall and still on their horses, with Bran on his pony . A faint wind blew through the holdfast gate . Over their heads flapped the banner of the Starks of Winterfell .
Bran kept his pony well in hand, and did not look away . His father took off the man’s head with a single sure stroke . Blood sprayed out across the snow, as red as summerwine . It came up near Greyjoy’s feet .
“The deserter died bravely,” Jon Snow said quietly . “It was not courage. This one was dead of fear. You could see it in his eyes, Stark.” Jon’s eyes were grey so dark they seemed almost black, but there was little they did not see. “The Others take his eyes,” Jon said, kicking his horse forward .
“Old Nan has been telling you stories again. The question was not why the man had to die, but why I must do it.” “King Robert has a headsman,” he said uncertainly . “One day, Bran, you will be Robb’s bannerman, holding a keep of your own for your brother and your king, and justice will fall to you.” Jon reappeared on the crest of the hill before them .
Jory Cassel and Theon Greyjoy were the first to reach the boys . Bran was afire with curiosity by then. He would have spurred the pony faster, but his father made them dismount beside the bridge and approach on foot .
Theon Greyjoy said, “There’s not been a direwolf sighted south of the Wall in two hundred years.” “I see one now,” Jon replied. The pup was a tiny ball of grey-black fur, its eyes still closed . It nuzzled blindly against Robb’s chest as he cradled it, searching for milk among his leathers, making a sad little whimpery sound .
“The sooner the better,” Theon Greyjoy agreed . He drew his sword. “Give the beast here, Bran.” The little thing squirmed against him, as if it heard and understood . “You cannot do that, boy,” Harwin said .
“You want no pup for yourself, Jon?” Bran asked softly. “The direwolf graces the banners of House Stark,” Jon pointed out. “I am no Stark, Father.” Their lord father regarded Jon thoughtfully.
“Yes, Father,” Bran said. “We won’t let them die.” “Keep them, then. Jory, Desmond, gather up the other pups. It’s time we were back to Winterfell.” Bran was wondering what to name him . By then, Jon was snuggled inside his leathers, warm against him, safe for the long ride home .
Catelyn had been anointed with the seven oils and named in the rainbow of light that filled the sept of Riverrun . Her gods had names, and their faces were as familiar as the faces of her parents . For her sake, Ned had built a small sept where she might sing to the seven faces of god, but the blood of the First Men still flowed in the veins of the Starks .
The weirwood’s bark was white as bone, its leaves dark red, like a thousand bloodstained hands . A face had been carved in the trunk of the great tree, its features long and melancholy, the deep-cut eyes red with dried sap and strangely watchful . They had watched the castle’s granite walls rise around them .
"I am always proud of Bran," Catelyn replied, watching the sword as he stroked it . Ice had been forged in Valyria, before the Doom had come to the old Freehold . The name it bore was older still, a legacy from the age of heroes .
"You listen to too many of Old Nan’s stories. The Others are as dead as the children of the forest, gone eight thousand years. No living man has ever seen a direwolf either," Catelyn reminded him . In his youth, Ned had fostered at the Eyrie and the childless Lord Arryn had become a second father to him and his fellow ward, Robert Baratheon .
Lord Arryn brought the milk of the poppy, so Jon did not linger long in pain . The Eyrie is high and lonely, and it was ever her husband’s place, not hers . “Brynden will do what he can for her, and for the boy,” Ned urged .
Catelyn wished she could share his joy . But she forced herself to smile at this man she loved . "Ben will want to be here," he agreed .
Illyrio has promised. Tonight you must look like a princess," Viserys said . He was a gaunt young man with nervous hands and a feverish look in his pale lilac eyes.
Magister Illyrio had friends in Vaes Dothrak and the fabled lands beside the Jade Sea . It was also said that he’d never had a friend he wouldn’t cheerfully sell for the right price . His anger was a terrible thing when roused. Viserys called it “waking the dragon.” Her brother hung the gown beside the door .
The Dothraki called that land Rhaesh Andahli, the land of the Andals . She had never seen this land her brother said was theirs, this realm beyond the narrow sea . Viserys had been a boy of eight when they fled King’s Landing to escape advancing armies of the Usurper .
Princess Elia of Dorne pleading for mercy as Rhaegar’s heir was ripped from her breast and murdered before her eyes . The sack of King’s Landing by the ones Viserys called the Usurper’s dogs, the lords Lannister and Stark .
Ser Willem was a great grey bear of a man, half-blind, roaring and bellowing orders from his sickbed . The servants had lived in terror of him, but he had always been kind to Dany . Dany had her own room there, with a lemon tree outside her window .
Illyrio’s servants entered, bowed, and set about their business . They were slaves, a gift from one of the magister’s many Dothraki friends . There was no slavery in the free city of Pentos .
A hundred thousand men ride in his khalasar, and his palace in Vaes Dothrak has two hundred rooms and doors of solid silver . Daenerys had always assumed she would wed Viserys when she came of age . For centuries the Targaryens had married brother to sister, since Aegon the Conqueror had taken his sisters to bride .
The girl brushed her hair until it shone like molten silver, while the old woman anointed her with the spiceflower perfume of the Dothraki plains . They dressed her in the wisps that Magister Illyrio had sent up, and then the gown, a deep plum silk to bring out the violet in her eyes .
Magister Illyrio bowed his head, showing a thin glimpse of crooked yellow teeth through the gold of his beard . It was a severe look that emphasized the hard, gaunt lines of his face . The savages have queer tastes. Boys, horses, sheep ...
The streets of Pentos were pitch-dark when they set out in Illyrio’s elaborately carved palanquin . Two servants went ahead to light their way, carrying ornate oil lanterns with panes of pale blue glass . A dozen strong men hoisted the poles to their shoulders .
Dany mistrusted Illyrio's sweet words as she mistrused everything about him . She saw the smallest hint of a smile playing around his full lips . The nine-towered manse of Khal Drogo sat beside the waters of the bay .
Magister Illyrio's words were honey . The palanquin slowed and stopped. The curtains were thrown back, and a slave offered a hand to help Daenerys out . It took two strong men to get him back on his feet . In the entry hall, the air was heavy with the scent of spices, pinchfire and sweet lemon and cinnamon .
Daenerys looked at them all in wonder ... and realized, with a sudden start of fear, that she was the only woman there . Illyrio whispered to them. “Those three are Drogo’s bloodriders, there,” he said . “The Usurper wanted his head,” she blurted .
Khal Drogo was a head taller than the tallest man in the room . His skin was the color of polished copper, his thick mustachios bound with gold and bronze rings . It swung well past his belt, below even his buttocks .
Khal Drogo has never lost a fight. He is Aegon the Dragonlord come again, and you will be his queen.” She said in a small, thin voice . “Please, please, Viserys, I don’t want to, I want to go home,” she said .
Magister Illyrio, all smiles and bows, was escorting Khal Drogo over to where they stood . She brushed away unfallen tears with the back of her hand, his hand falling to the hilt of his sword .
Ned had last seen the king nine years before during Balon Greyjoy’s rebellion, when the stag and the direwolf had joined to end the pretensions of the self-proclaimed King of the Iron Islands . In those days, the smell of leather and blood had clung to him like perfume, and he had a girth to match his height .
Robert’s queen, Cersei Lannister, entered on foot with her younger children . Ned knelt in the snow to kiss the queen’s ring, while Robert embraced Catelyn like a long-lost sister . Then the children had been brought forward, introduced, and approved of by both sides .
Robert snorted as they descended . "The Starks will endure. We always have." "You need to come south," Robert told him . “You need a taste of summer before it flees," Robert said .
Robert Baratheon was breathing heavily by the time they reached the bottom of the stairs . He swept the lantern light as they stepped out into the darkness of the crypt . Shadows moved and lurched. He led the way between the pillars and Robert followed wordlessly, shivering in the subterranean chill .
Lord Rickard Stark, Ned’s father, had a long, stern face . He sat with quiet dignity, stone fingers holding tight to the sword across his lap . In two smaller sepulchres on either side were his children .
Ned remembered how tightly her fingers had clutched his as she gave up her hold on life . The king touched her cheek, his fingers brushing across the rough stone as gently as if it were living flesh . When Ned had finally come on the scene, Rhaegar lay dead in the stream .
Ned paused beside a pillar, before the tomb of a long-dead Stark . “I have never seen a man sicken so quickly. We gave a tourney on my son’s name day,” Ned replied quietly .
"Six, and sickly, and Lord of the Eyrie, gods have mercy," the king swore . "The boy is my namesake, did you know that? Robert Arryn. I am sworn to protect him," Ned said .
Jon Arryn served as Warden of the East, as the Hand of the King . He will succeed to the Eyrie and all its incomes, Robert said brusquely . "I have this year to think of, and next. A six-year-old boy is no war leader, Ned."
"I want you down in King’s Landing, not up here at the end of the world where you are no damned use to anybody" Robert looked off into the darkness, for a moment as melancholy as a Stark . "I swear to you, sitting a throne is a thousand times harder than winning one."
Robert groaned with good-humored impatience . "You helped me win this damnable throne, now help me hold it," the king said .
Eddard Stark was filled with a terrible sense of foreboding . The Great Hall of Winterfell was hazy with smoke and heavy with the smell of roasted meat and fresh-baked bread . Its grey stone walls were draped with banners .
Jon's brothers and sisters had been seated beneath the raised platform where Lord and Lady Stark hosted the king and queen . In honor of the occasion, his lord father would doubtless permit each child a glass of wine, but no more than that . He was finding that he had a man’s thirst, to the raucous delight of the youths around him .
Ser Jaime Lannister was twin to Queen Cersei; tall and golden, with flashing green eyes and a smile that cut like a knife . He wore crimson silk, high black boots, a black satin cloak .
Tyrion Lannister was the youngest of Lord Tywin’s brood and by far the ugliest . His head was too large for his body, with a brute’s squashed-in face beneath a swollen shelf of brow . Benjen Stark of the Night’s Watch gave Jon a warm smile as he went by . There was still half a honeyed chicken in the center of the table .
Dogs moved between the tables, trailing after the serving girls . One of them, a mongrel bitch with long yellow eyes, caught a scent of the chicken . Ghost looked up, silent, and fixed the dog with those hot red eyes .
Benjen Stark dressed in black, as befitted a man of the Night’s Watch . Tonight it was rich black velvet, with high leather boots and a wide belt with a silver buckle . The queen seemed as cold as an ice sculpture .
Uncle Benjen studied his face carefully . "The Wall is a hard place for a boy, Jon." "I am almost a man grown," Jon protested .
Jon felt anger rise inside him. “I’m not your son!” Benjen Stark stood up . “You might, if you knew what the oath would cost you, you might be less eager to pay the price, son.” Jon trembled.
Jon whirled and bolted before they could see him cry . He lurched sideways into a serving girl and sent a flagon of spiced wine crashing to the floor . Ghost followed close at his heels and ran, half-blind, for the door .
Jon gasped, then watched with awe as Tyrion Lannister spun around in a tight ball, landed lightly on his hands, then vaulted backward onto his legs . The dwarf dusted himself off and laughed . “He’s not scared,” Jon said. “Ghost, come here. Come on. That’s it.” “You can touch him now. He won’t move until I tell him to. I’ve been training him.”
“You are the bastard, though.” “Lord Eddard Stark is my father,” Jon admitted stiffly. “You have more of the north in you than your brothers.” “Half brothers,” Jon corrected . “Let me give you some counsel, Bastard,” Lannister said.
The Starks were made for the cold, but Ned couldn't abide the heat . He crossed the room, pulled back the heavy tapestries, and threw open the high narrow windows one by one, letting the night air into the chamber . It had been three years since Rickon. She was not too old. She could give him another son .
Ned shook his head, refusing to believe . “Robert would never harm me or any of mine. We were closer than brothers. He loves me.” Catelyn remembered the direwolf dead in the snow, the broken antler lodged deep in her throat .
Ned turned away from her, back to the night, to see his pain . He stood staring out in the darkness, watching the moon and the stars perhaps, or perhaps the sentries on the wall . Ned was surprised that Maester Luwin could lift his arms at all .
Maester Luwin drew a tightly rolled paper out of his sleeve . “I found the true message concealed within a false bottom,” Ned said .
The maester placed the paper on the table beside the bed . It was sealed with a small blob of blue wax . Luwin bowed and began to retreat. “Stay,” Ned commanded him. “I’m afraid,” Catelyn admitted .
"Lysa says Jon Arryn was murdered" Ned released his hold on her arm . There were deep red marks on her skin. "Gods," he whispered . "Your sister is sick with grief. She cannot know what she is saying."
Ned turned away from them and went to the window . She did not speak, nor did the maester. They waited, quiet, while Eddard Stark said a silent farewell to the home he loved . “My father went south once, to answer the summons of a king.” “Yes,” Ned said dully .
“I could not bear it,” Catelyn said, trembling . “Sansa must wed Joffrey, that is clear now, we must give them no grounds to suspect our devotion.” Arya would shine in the south . Reluctantly, she let go of them in her heart .
Catelyn had grown up with that knowledge. It came as no surprise to her, in the first year of her marriage, to learn that Ned had fathered a child on some girl chance met on campaign . Ned brought his bastard home with him, and called him “son” for all the north to see . They whispered of Ser Arthur Dayne, the deadliest of the seven knights of Aerys’s Kingsguard .
Jon was never out of sight, and as he grew, he looked more like Ned than any of the trueborn sons she bore him . It was hard, she knew, but no less the truth . The look Ned gave her was anguished .
Jon Stark would be a son to him, the child he would never have . He would father no sons who might someday contest with Catelyn’s grandchildren for Winterfell . It was not easy keeping silent then .
ARYA Arya’s stitches were crooked again . She looked glumly at her sister Sansa . The septa laughed along with the rest of the ladies .
Arya was the daughter of Winterfell’s steward and Sansa’s dearest friend . “Joffrey likes your sister,” Jeyne whispered proud as if she had something to do with it. “He’s going to marry her,” little Beth said dreamily .
Princess Myrcella smiled uncertainly at the compliment . She rose to her feet, starched skirts rustling as she started across the room . "Let me see your stitches," Arya said, surrendering up her work .
Sansa had gotten their mother’s fine high cheekbones and the thick auburn hair of the Tullys . It hurt that the one thing Arya could do better than her sister was ride a horse . The wolf pup loved her, even if no one else did . They went everywhere together, and Nymeria slept in her room .
Arya climbed up on the window and sat beside him, to a chorus of thuds and grunts from the yard below . She wanted to see Robb put gallant Prince Joffrey flat on his back . There was a window in the covered bridge between the armory and the Great Keep where you had a view of the whole yard .
A dozen spectators, man and boy, were calling out encouragement, Robb’s voice the loudest among them . Arya judged that they had been at it awhile. “A shade more exhausting than needlework,” Jon observed . It had been Jon she had gone to in her fear, and Jon reassured her .
Arya snatched back her arm and glared at him . "You’re too skinny," Jon said. "I doubt you could even lift a longsword, little sister, never mind swing one." "You see Prince Joffrey?" Jon asked .
Prince Tommen was rolling in the dust, trying to get up and failing . The men began to laugh. “Enough!” Ser Rodrik called out. He gave the prince a hand and yanked him back to his feet . “You got more swats than you gave, Joff,” Robb said .
Arya, a tall knight with black hair and burn scars on his face, pushed forward in front of the prince . "This is your prince. Who are you to tell him he may not have an edge on his sword, ser?" The burned man looked at Robb .
Jon watched them leave, and Arya watched Jon . He bent to scratch Ghost behind the ears. The white wolf rose and rubbed against him . The longer you hide, the sterner the penance. You’ll be sewing all through winter .
Bran was going to ride the kingsroad on a horse of his own, not a pony but a real horse . Old Nan said there were ghosts there, and dungeons where terrible things had been done, and dragon heads on the walls . It gave Bran a shiver just to think of it, but he was not afraid .
Ser Jaime Lannister looked more like the knights in the stories, but Robb said he had killed the old mad king and shouldn’t count anymore . Bran had been marking the days on his wall, eager to depart, to see a world he hadn’t dreamed of and begin a life he could scarcely imagine . But now that the last day was at hand, suddenly Bran felt lost .
Bran had gone to the stable first, and saw his pony there in its stall . He turned and ran off before Hodor and the other stableboys could see the tears in his eyes . Instead he spent the morning alone in the godswood, trying to teach his wolf to fetch a stick, and failing .
Winterfell was a grey stone labyrinth of walls and towers and courtyards and tunnels spreading out in all directions . In the older parts of the castle, the halls slanted up and down so that you couldn’t even be sure what floor you were on .
Bran could perch for hours among the shapeless, rain-worn gargoyles that brooded over the First Keep . It made him feel like he was lord of the castle, in a way even Robb would never know . There were hills and valleys behind the walls of Winterfell .
Old Nan told him a story about a bad little boy who climbed too high and was struck down by lightning . There were crows’ nests atop the broken tower, where no one ever went but him . Later, Maester Luwin built a little pottery boy and dressed him in Bran’s clothes and flung him off the wall into the yard below .
He liked the way the air tasted way up high, sweet and cold as a winter peach . Most of all, he liked going places that no one else could go, and seeing the grey sprawl of Winterfell . It made the whole castle Bran’s secret place .
The first Keep had been empty all his life . He was so startled he almost lost his grip . "I do not like it," a woman was saying .
Stannis and Renly are one thing, and Eddard Stark is quite another. Damn them both. I should have insisted that he name you, but I was certain Stark would refuse him.” “We ought to count ourselves fortunate,” the man said . “The king might as easily have named one of his brothers, or even Littlefinger, gods help us,” Bran realized .
“I think birthing does something to your minds. You are all mad.” He laughed . “Let Lady Arryn grow as bold as she likes. Whatever she thinks she knows, she has no proof.” He paused a moment. “Do you think the king will require proof?” the woman said. “You are as blind as Robert,” the woman was saying .
Bran sat astride the gargoyle, tightened his legs around it, and swung himself around, upside down . The world looked strange upside down, its stones still wet with melted snow . Inside the room, a man and a woman were wrestling. They were both naked .
The woman pushed the man away wildly, shouting and pointing . There was an instant of vertigo, a sickening lurch as the window flashed past . He shot out a hand, grabbed for the ledge, lost it, caught it again with his other hand . The impact took the breath out of him .
Tyrion Lannister looked up from his books and shivered, though the library was snug and warm . When the direwolf howled again, Tyrion shut the heavy leather-bound cover on the book he was reading . His reading lamp was flickering, its oil all but gone, as dawn light leaked through the high windows .
Tyrion swallowed a lungful of the cold morning air and began his laborious descent of the steep stone steps that corkscrewed around the exterior of the library tower . Sandor Clegane’s rasping voice drifted up to him . “I could silence the creature, if it please you,” Tyrion said through his open visor .
“I am in no mood for your insolence today.” Tyrion turned to his nephew. “Joffrey, it is past time you called on Lord Eddard and his lady, to offer them your comfort.” “Your absence has been noted.” “The Stark boy is nothing to me,” Joffrey said. “I’m going to tell Mother!” Tyrion hit him again. Now both cheeks flamed.
“The prince will remember that, little lord,” the Hound warned him . “If he forgets, be a good dog and remind him.” He glanced around the courtyard . He gave Sandor Clegane a perfunctory nod and walked away as briskly as his stunted legs would carry him, whistling .
Tyrion turned back to his siblings. Twins, male and female. They looked very much the part this morning . Tyrion wondered what it would be like to have a twin, and decided that he would rather not know .
Tyrion chewed thoughtfully for a moment and said, “He thinks that if the boy were going to die, he would have done so already.” “Will Bran get better, Uncle?” little Myrcella asked. “His back is broken, little one,” Tyrion told her. “I would swear that wolf of his is keeping the boy alive.” Every time they chase it away, it returns.
“I hope you’re not thinking of taking the black on us, sweet brother.” Cersei stood abruptly . “Stark will never consent to leave Winterfell with his son lingering in the shadow of death.” “He could end his torment,” Jaime said .
“I hope the boy does wake. I would be most interested to hear what he might have to say.” Tyrion’s mouth was full of bread and fish . He took a swallow of strong black beer to wash it all down, and grinned up wolfishly at Jaime . “Why, Jaime, my sweet brother,” he said, “you wound me. You know how much I love my family.” Ghost padded silently beside him . Outside, snow swirled through the castle gates,
He would be a Sworn Brother of the Night’s Watch soon, and face worse dangers than Catelyn Tully Stark . “He’s my brother,” Jon said, defiant. “You can’t stop me from seeing him.” He crossed the room, keeping the bed between them, and looked down on Bran where he lay . He looked half a leaf, as if the first strong wind would carry him off to his grave .
Jon brushed away his tears, leaned over, and kissed his brother lightly on the lips . "I wanted him to stay here with me," Lady Stark said softly . “I went to the sept and prayed seven times to the seven faces of god,” she said .
Grey Wind was at his side. “He wanted to be gone an hour ago.” “I know,” Jon said . “You Starks are hard to kill,” Robb said. “The next time I see you, you’ll be all in black.” He smiled back .
Arya was in her room packing a polished ironwood chest that was bigger than she was . Nymeria was helping, but she snatch up some wisp of silk in her jaws . When she smelled Ghost, she jumped to her feet and yelped at them . “What did you do now?” Jon was amused .
Jon drew out the blade slowly, so she could see the deep blue sheen of the steel . “Girls don’t shave,” Arya said. “Maybe they should. Have you ever seen the septa’s legs?” She giggled at him. “So are you,” Jon told her .
Arya ran to him for a last hug . She set it aside almost shyly and showered him with kisses . The memory of her laughter warmed him on the long ride north . DAENERYS Daenerys Targaryen wed Khal Drogo with fear .
Magister Illyrio told them over platters of honey duck and orange snap peppers one night at the manse that had been Drogo’s . "Best we get Princess Daenerys wedded quickly before they hand half the wealth of Pentos away to sellswords and bravos," Ser Jorah Mormont jested . “He can have her tomorrow, if he likes,” her brother said .
Viserys lowered his eyes respectfully . Illyrio smiled enigmatically and tore a wing from the duck . There are no more dragons, though she did not dare say it aloud .
Dany was seated beside Khal Drogo, above the seething sea of Dothraki . She had never seen so many people in one place, nor people so strange and frightening . Men and women wore painted leather vests over bare chests and horsehair leggings cinched by bronze medallion belts .
Khal Drogo shouted commands and jests down to his bloodriders, and laughed at their replies, but he scarcely glanced at Dany beside him . She sat in her wedding silks, nursing a cup of honeyed wine, afraid to eat, talking silently to herself . The sun was only a quarter of the way up the sky when she saw her first man die .
Dany looked away from the coupling, frightened when she realized what was happening . A second warrior stepped forward, and a third, and soon there was no way to avert her eyes . Dany heard a shout, saw a shove, and in the blink of an eye the arakhs were out, long razor-sharp blades, half sword and half scythe .
Irri and Jhiqui were copper-skinned Dothraki with black hair and almond-shaped eyes, Doreah a fair-haired, blue-eyed Lysene girl . She was afraid of what would happen tonight under the stars when her brother gave her up to the hulking giant who sat drinking beside her with a face as still and cruel as a bronze mask . It was time for her bride gifts, and after the sun had gone down,
Magister Illyrio found piles of finest velvets and damasks the Free Cities could produce . They were the most beautiful things she had ever seen, each different than the others . She lifted it delicately, expecting that it would be made of some fine porcelain or delicate enamel, or even blown glass .
Illyrio had collected fortune in horses and slaves for his part in selling her to Khal Drogo . The khal’s bloodriders offered her the traditional three weapons, and splendid weapons they were . She gave her a great leather whip with a silver handle, Cohollo a magnificent arakh chased in gold, and Qotho an arakh taller than she was .
Dany was grey as the winter sea, with a mane like silver smoke . Hesitantly she reached out and ran her fingers through the silver of her mane . "She is the pride of the khalasar," Magister Illyrio said .
Dany was moving faster than she had intended, but somehow it was exciting rather than terrifying . The horse broke into a trot, and the filly responded . She was hooting and shouting at the Dothraki as they jumped out of her way .
Khal Drogo swung off his horse and lifted her down from hers . She felt as fragile as glass in his hands, her limbs as weak as water . He lifted his hand and rubbed away the tears roughly with a callused thumb . “You speak the Common Tongue,” Dany said again .
He pulled it over his shoulder and began to remove the bells from his hair, one by one . Dany sat silently, watching her. He removed her silks, carefully . She averted her eyes and covered herself with her hands . He pulled her hands away from her breasts, gently but firmly, then lifted her face again .
Dany was flushed and breathless, her heart fluttering in her chest . He cupped her face in his huge hands and moved it down to the wetness between her thighs . Alyn shook him roughly from his dreams and Ned stumbled into the predawn chill .
Ser Boros and Ser Meryn waited behind him with a dozen guardsmen, Ned saw . Ned called out a question as they rode, but the wind blew his words away . They soon left the kingsroad and took off across rolling plains dark with mist .
“We are not the boys we were,” Robert grumbled . “You were never the boy you were,” Ned replied with cool courtesy, “and I would sooner not speak of her.” “Wylla. Yes.” Ned’s mouth tightened in anger .
Ned slapped a hand on his knee, thinking of Lysa and her terrible accusation . He pointed them out to his king. “This land is old.” “And cold,” Ned grumbled, pulling his cloak more tightly around himself .
Ser Jorah had tried to swell the family coffers by selling some poachers to a Tyroshi slaver . As the Mormonts were bannermen to the Starks, his crime dishonored the north . Ned had made the long journey west to Bear Island, only to find when he arrived .
Tywin Lannister had given Rhaegar's corpses as a token of fealty . Ned had named that murder; Robert called it war . It took another death to reconcile them; Lyanna’s death, and the grief they shared over her passing .
“I will kill every Targaryen I can get my hands on, until they are as dead as their dragons, and then I will piss on their graves.” Ned knew better than to defy him when the wrath was on him. “You can’t get your hands on this one, can you?” Ned said quietly .
The king shifted uncomfortably in his saddle . "Perhaps. There are ships to be had in the Free Cities," Ned said . “He will not cross,” Ned promised. “And if by some mischance he does, we will throw him back into the sea. Once you choose a Warden of the East—” Ned groaned .
"I will fight that battle when the enemy appears on the field," the king said stubbornly . "At the moment, Lord Tywin looms eternal as Casterly Rock," Ned said .
Aerys Targaryen was in the Red Keep with several thousand loyalists . The mighty Lannisters of Casterly Rock, the Wardens of the West, had remained aloof from the struggle . He had opened his city to the lions at the gates of King’s Landing .
Ned asked for the gods, Your Grace ... only for what I found when I rode into the throne room that day . He wore the white cloak of the Kingsguard over his golden armor . I can see him still. Even his sword was gilded!
The king threw back his head and roared with laughter again . "You think I should mistrust Lannister because he sat on my throne for a few moments?" Robert suggested .
Tyrion Lannister had left Winterfell on the same day as the king, riding out to the sound of men shouting and horses snorting, to the rattle of wagons and the columns of knights and freeriders turned south, taking the tumult with them . West of the road were flint hills, grey and rugged, with tall watchtowers on their stony summits . It had grown colder after that, and far more quiet .
Jon Snow’s albino direwolf pricked up his ears at the nightly howling, but never raised his own voice in reply . There were eight in the party by then, not counting the wolf . Tyrion traveled with two of his own men, as befit a Lannister . Life on the Wall was said to be hard but no doubt it was preferable to castration .
Yoren and his companions were a rude awakening . Benjen Stark seemed to share his brother’s distaste for Lannisters . He had not been pleased when Tyrion had told him of his intentions .
Tyrion had brought his warmest clothing with him when they rode out of Winterfell . It was cold up here, and growing colder . By now Stark was no doubt regretting his chivalrous impulse . The Lannisters never declined, graciously or otherwise .
Dragonbone is black because of its high iron content, the book told him . It is strong as steel, yet lighter and far more flexible, and of course utterly impervious to fire .
There were nineteen skulls. The oldest was more than three thousand years old . The most recent were also the smallest; a matched pair no bigger than mastiff’s skulls, and oddly misshapen, all that remained of the last two hatchlings born on Dragonstone . From there the skulls ranged upward in size to the three great monsters of song and story, the dragons that Aegon Targaryen and his sisters had unleashed on the Seven Kingdoms of old 
Aegon Targaryen and his sisters met on the broad plains of the Reach . It was the only time that Vhaghar, Meraxes, and Balerion were all unleashed at once . Near four thousand men had burned that day, among them King Mern . Tyrion looked at him suspiciously .
My legs are short and twisted, and I walk with difficulty . I require a special saddle to keep from falling off my horse . My arms are strong enough, but again, too short. I will never make a swordsman .
Jon Snow was staring at Tyrion, a look equal to horror and fascination . “You’ve dreamt the same kind of dreams,” Tyrion said, horrified .
The Night’s Watch is a midden heap for all the misfits of the realm . The bad part is there are no grumkins or snarks, so it’s scarcely dangerous work . Tyrion took a step forward, intending to give the boy a reassuring pat on the shoulder or mutter some word of apology .
Tyrion Lannister felt the anger coiling inside him, and crushed it out with a will . It was not the first time in his life he had been humiliated, and it would not be the last . “I should be very grateful for your kind assistance, Jon,” the boy said mildly .
Jon Snow offered a hand to help him over a thick tangle of roots, but Tyrion shook him off . The shelters had been thrown up against the tumbledown wall of a long-abandoned holdfast . Yoren sat on a stone, skinning a squirrel .
Tyrion Lannister smiled sadly and went to bed . Catelyn looked at Bran in his sickbed and brushed his hair back off his forehead . "I know what the visit cost us. Take the books away," she told him .
Maester Luwin bowed and departed. “Yes, my lady, but the appointments—” Robb said . Catelyn had not heard him enter, but there he stood in the doorway, looking at her . She had been shouting, she realized with a sudden flush of shame .
Catelyn had always thought Robb looked like her; like Bran and Rickon and Sansa, he had the Tully coloring, the auburn hair, the blue eyes . But now for the first time she saw something of Eddard Stark in his face, something as stern and hard as the north . “What do you imagine I’m doing? I am taking care of your brother.” “You haven’t left this room since Bran was hurt. You didn’t even come to the gate when
“Mother, I need you too. I’m trying but I can’t do it all by myself.” His voice broke with sudden emotion . Catelyn remembered that he was just fourteen . “Bran needs to stay warm.” “He needs to hear them sing,” Robb said .
“Don’t be afraid, Mother. They would never hurt him.” He helped her to her narrow bed . “Rest. Maester Luwin tells me you’ve hardly slept since Bran’s fall.” “Gods forgive me, Robb, I can’t, what if he dies while I’m asleep,” she wept .
Catelyn said a silent prayer of thanks to the seven faces of god as she went to the window . She watched the smoke rise into the sky and thought sadly of all the books the Starks had gathered over the centuries . When she turned away from the window, the man was in the room with her .
Her fingers were slippery with blood, but she would not let go of the dagger . The hand over her mouth clenched more tightly, shutting off her air . Catelyn twisted her head to the side and managed to get a piece of his flesh between her teeth . He grabbed her hair and pulled her away from him, and she stumbled and went down .
Catelyn padded closer, sniffed at her fingers, then licked at the blood with a wet rough tongue . When the laughter finally died in her throat, they wrapped her in warm blankets and led her back to the Great Keep, to her own chambers . The maester gave her milk of the poppy to help her sleep .
Rodrik Cassel came with him, and her husband’s ward Theon Greyjoy, and lastly Hallis Mollen, a muscular guardsman with a square brown beard . “No one knows his name,” Catelyn asked them. “Maybe,” Hal said .
Catelyn looked at all the food and found she had no appetite . She sent the servants away and looked back to Robb . “Someone is afraid of what he might say or do, afraid of something he knows.”
“So long as Lord Eddard is away, my son is the master of Winterfell,” she told him . “You have my oath,” Maester Luwin said. “And mine, my lady,” echoed Ser Rodrik .
“I do not think Bran fell from that tower,” Catelyn said into the stillness . “My lady, that is a monstrous suggestion,” said Rodrik Cassel . The Lannisters are a hundred leagues away .
“Your proof is in the dagger,” Ser Rodrik said . “Someone must go to King’s Landing.” “I’ll go,” Robb said. “Your place is here. There must always be a Stark in Winterfell.” Catelyn struggled to push back the blankets .
“I will not be taking the kingsroad,” Catelyn replied . “Two riders can move as fast as one, and a good deal faster than a long column burdened by wagons and wheel-houses. We will follow the White Knife down to the sea, and hire a ship at White Harbor.” “I’ve never seen an aurochs,” Sansa said, feeding a piece of bacon to Lady under the table .
Sansa had been looking forward to today for more than a week . She had brushed out her long auburn hair until it shone, and picked her nicest blue silks . Arya was wearing the same riding leathers she had worn yesterday and the day before .
“I’m not,” Arya said, trying to brush a tangle out of Nymeria’s matted grey fur . “Mycah and I are going to ride upstream and look for rubies at the ford.” “Rubies,” Sansa said .
Huge flowers bloomed in the mud and floated on pools of stagnant water . One day she came back grinning her horsey grin, her hair all tangled and her clothes covered in mud . The next day she rubbed mud all over her arms like some ignorant bog woman . She had bruises on her arms and shoulders too, dark purple welts and faded green-and-yellow splotches .
Arya was still going on, brushing out Nymeria’s tangles and chattering about things she’d seen on the trek south . She gave a hard yank with the brush. “You can’t refuse the queen. Septa Mordane will expect you.” Sansa was running out of patience now .
Lady brushed against her leg, scratching her ears the way she liked . Lady sat beside her on her haunches, watching Arya chase Nymeria . She thrust the brush under her belt and stalked her wolf .
Arya shouted after her, “They won’t let you bring Lady either.” She was gone before Sansa could think of a reply, chasing Nymeria along the river . She would have liked a sister like that. It would have been easier if she had been a bastard, like their half brother Jon .
Anxious to see, Sansa saw two knights kneeling before the queen . He wore an intricate suit of white enameled scales, brilliant as a field of new-fallen snow, with silver chasings and clasps that glittered in the sun . From his shoulders hung the pure white cloak of the Kingsguard .
Sansa Stark was saying to the two stranger knights who knelt before her . Slowly he turned his head. Lady growled. A terror as overwhelming as anything she had ever felt filled her suddenly . She stepped backward and bumped into someone. Strong hands grasped her by the shoulders . He did, and had since she had laid eyes on the ruin that fire had made of his face .
The Hound, ever faithful, bowed and slid away quietly through the press . She was a Stark of Winterfell, a noble lady and someday would be a queen .
Sansa said, “The Lord Commander of the Kingsguard” and councillor to Robert our king . The green knight laughed again. “Don’t flatter him too sweetly, child, he thinks overmuch of himself already.” She smiled at the green knight .
Ser Ilyn has not been feeling talkative these past fourteen years . Lord Renly commented with a sly smile . She smiled graciously and said, “Sansa, the good councillors and I must speak together until the king returns with your father.”
Joffrey glanced back at Lady, who was following at their heels . "Your wolf is liable to frighten the horses," she said uncertainly . “I suppose I could tie Lady up.” She did not understand, though .
Prince Joffrey’s mount was a blood bay courser, swift as the wind, and he rode it with reckless abandon, so fast that Sansa was hard-pressed to keep up on her mare . They explored the caves by the riverbank, and tracked a shadowcat to its lair . When they grew hungry, JoffreY found a holdfast by its smoke and told them to fetch food and wine for their prince and his lady.
Prince Joffrey drew his Lion’s Tooth from its sheath . They came upon a boy and a girl playing at knights . Their swords were wooden sticks, broom handles from the look of them . The boy was years older, a head taller, and much stronger .
Joffrey examined the boy, an ungainly lad with a coarse, freckled face and thick red hair . He recognized the prince and averted his eyes . “He’s the butcher’s boy,” Sansa said sharply .
Arya swung with both hands, but she was too slow . There was a loud crack as the wood split against the back of the prince’s head . The back of his head was all bloody and his eyes were on fire .
Nymeria was there, leaping, jaws closing around Joffrey’s sword arm . The steel fell from his fingers as the wolf knocked him off his feet . Arya’s voice cracked like a whip . “Get it off!” The direwolf let go of Joffresy and moved to Aries’s side .
Ned had led searches himself for the first three days, and had scarcely slept an hour since Arya had disappeared . He had been so heartick and weary he could scarcely stand, but now his fury was on him, filling him with strength . Ned was aware of the eyes that followed him, of the muttered voices wondering what he would do.
Ser Raymun Darry lived under the king’s peace, but his family had fought beneath Rhaegar’s dragon banners at the Trident, and his three older brothers had died there . With king's men, Darry men, Lannister men, and Stark men all crammed into a castle far too small for them, tensions burned hot and heavy . It was too crowded, he thought; left alone, they might have been able to settle the matter am
“What is the meaning of this?” Ned demanded, his voice ringing . “Why was I not told that my daughter had been found?” He asked . The queen stepped forward .
Prince Joffrey was pale as he began his very different version of events . When his son was done talking, the king rose heavily from his seat, looking like a man who wanted to be anywhere but here . He knew the truth.
"I don’t know. Everything happened so fast, I didn’t see... You rotten!” Arya shrieked . She flew at her sister like an arrow, knocking Sansa down to the ground, pummeling her . “The girl is as wild as that filthy animal of hers,” Cersei Lannister said . Robert Baratheon looked at his eldest son, but the queen was not done .
Ned could see Arya tense in Jory’s arms . “We found no trace of the direwolf, Your Grace.” The queen regarded him coolly. “I had not thought you so niggardly. The king I’d thought to wed would have laid a wolfskin across my bed before the sun went down.” “Robert, you cannot mean this,” Ned protested .
Ned stood, gently disengaging himself from Sansa’s grasp . “Damn you, Cersei,” he said with loathing . The words tasted of bile in his throat .
Sansa was the smallest of the litter, the prettiest, the most gentle and trusting . She looked at him with bright golden eyes, and he ruffled her thick grey fur . He was walking back to the tower to give himself up to sleep at last when Sandor Clegane and his riders came pounding through the castle gate .
Maester Luwin made a little boy of clay, baked him till he was hard and brittle, dressed him in Bran’s clothes, and flung him off a roof . The ground was so far below him he could barely make it out through the grey mists that whirled around him . You always woke up in the instant before he hit the ground, he knew .
"I’ll wake up when I hit the ground," Bran told the bird . It went back to eating corn. He could see mountains now, their peaks white with snow, and the silver thread of rivers in dark woods . The crow took to the air and flapped around Bran’s hand . “You have wings,” Bran pointed out .
He saw Winterfell as the eagles see it, the tall towers looking squat and stubby from above, the castle walls just lines in the dirt . He saw Maester Luwin studying the sky through a polished bronze tube and frowning as he made notes in a book .
He looked south, and saw the great blue-green rush of the Trident . He saw Sansa crying herself to sleep at night, and he saw Arya holding her secrets hard in her heart . There were shadows all around them, one shadow was dark as ash . Another was armored like the sun, golden and beautiful .
Bran looked at the crow on his shoulder, and the third eye was full of a terrible knowledge . It took to the air, flapping its wings in his face, slowing him, blinding him . He felt a sudden blinding pain in the middle of his forehead, between his eyes .
Bran touched his forehead, between his eyes. The place where the crow had pecked him was still burning, but there was nothing there, no blood, no wound. He felt weak and dizzy. He tried to get out of bed, but nothing happened. A pair of yellow eyes looked into his own, shining like the sun .
The Storm Dancer was his fourth ship, and his fastest, a two-masted galley of sixty oars . Catelyn and Ser Rodrik Cassel had arrived after their headlong gallop downriver . The Tyroshi loved bright colors, even in their facial hair .
Ser Rodrik looked odd without his great white side whiskers; smaller somehow, less fierce, and ten years older . But back on the Bite it had seemed prudent to submit to a crewman’s razor, after his whiskers had become hopelessly befouled for the third time while he leaned over the rail and retched into the swirling winds . Catelyn touched his arm, her fingers stiff and fumbling .
Catelyn's mouth grew tight; his face swam up before her . His father had died several years before, so he was Lord Baelish now, yet still they called him Littlefinger . Ser Rodrik cleared his throat in search of the polite word .
Three hundred years ago, Catelyn knew, those heights had been covered with forest, and only a handful of fisherfolk had lived on the north shore of the Blackwater Rush . It was here that Aegon the Conqueror had put ashore, and there on the highest hill that he built his first crude redoubt of wood and earth . Now the city covered the shore as far as Catélyn could see; manses and arbors and granaries, brick
Catelyn spied the queen’s barge, tied up beside a fat-bellied whaler from the Port of Ibben, its hull black with tar . Upriver a dozen lean golden warships rested in their cribs, sails furled and cruel iron rams lapping at the water . Above it all was the Red Keep; seven huge drum-towers crowned with iron ramparts, an immense grim barbican .
Moreo was shouting in the vulgar Valyrian of the Free Cities . "You would be as much at risk as I would," Ser Rodrik smiled .
Catelyn paid the oarmen herself, a stag to each man, and a copper to the two men who carried their chests halfway up Visenya’s hill to the inn that Moreo had suggested . She swore that her fish stew was the most savory in all the Seven Kingdoms . "I think it best if you stay away from the common room," Ser Rodrik said after they had settled in .
Catelyn felt her breath catch in her throat . The seal was a mockingbird, in grey wax . She bathed her hands in the basin and wrapped them in clean linen .
Petyr had been a small boy, but after his mischiefs he always looked contrite . He had a little pointed chin beard now, and threads of silver in his dark hair .
“How did you know I was in the city?” Petyr asked . “I wanted to see you alone first. It has been too long, Cat. How many years?” Catelyn ignored his familiarity .
Littlefinger called out the man who stepped through the door was plump, perfumed, powdered, and as hairless as an egg . He wore a vest of gold thread over a loose gown of purple silk, and on his feet were pointed slippers of soft velvet . “On that we agree, Lord Varys,” she said .
“I suppose I am guilty. I hope you forgive me, kind lady.” Varys giggled like a little girl . “I wonder if we might trouble you to show us the dagger?” Catelyn Stark stared at the eunuch .
Varys lifted the knife with exaggerated delicacy and ran a thumb along its edge . Blood welled, and he let out a squeal and dropped the dagger back on the table . “Nothing holds an edge like Valyrian steel,” Littlefinger said .
JON The courtyard rang to the song of swords. Under black wool, boiled leather, and mail, sweat trickled icily down Jon’s chest as he pressed the attack . When he raised his sword, Jon went underneath it with a sweeping blow that crunched against the back of the other boy’s leg and sent him staggering .
Thorne strode toward him, crisp black leathers whispering faintly as he moved . He was a compact man of fifty years, spare and hard, with grey in his black hair and eyes like chips of onyx . “What you are is weak.” “No. The Aurochs lost.” One of the other boys sniggered .
Jon hung sword and scabbard from a hook in the stone wall, ignoring others around him . In a few years he would forget what it felt like to be warm . There was scant warmth to be found in Castle Black; the walls were cold here, and the people colder .
Jon had heard that Benjen Stark was to lead a half-dozen men on a ranging into the haunted forest . That night he sought out his uncle in the great timbered common hall and pleaded to go with him . “This is not Winterfell,” he told him as he cut his meat with fork and dagger .
Jon missed the girls too, even Sansa, who never called him anything but “my half brother” since she was old enough to understand what bastard meant . Arya ... he missed her even more than Robb, skinny little thing that she was . He would give anything to be with her now, to muss up her hair once more and watch her make a face, to hear her finish a sentence with him .
Jon twisted like an eel and slammed a heel down across the instep of the boy holding him . He flew at Toad, knocked him backward over a bench, and landed on his chest with both hands on his throat, slamming his head against the packed earth . Donal Noye stood glowering at them .
The armorer had a chest like a keg of ale and a gut to match . His nose was flat and broad, and he always seemed in need of shave . "You won’t win any honors killing him," Donal Noye said .
"I hate it here. It’s too ... it’s cold," Jon repeated bitterly . The armorer could talk about life. He’d only taken the black after he’d lost an arm at the siege of Storm’s End . They said it was Donal Noye who’d forged King Robert’s warhammer .
“No. They hate you because you act like you’re better than they are.” “You’re no lordling. Remember that. You’re a Snow, not a Stark.” “A bully?” Jon almost choked on the word . “Four that you’ve humiliated in the yard. Four who are probably afraid of you. It’s not training with you. You leave them nothing. Does that make you proud?” Jon hesitated.
Donal Noye leaned forward, into Jon’s face, into his face . “No one in twenty was ever rich enough to own a real sword” Jon said sharply . He felt ashamed and guilty .
Benjen Stark had told Jon on the kingsroad when they had first caught sight of the Wall in the distance . It was a pale blue line across the northern horizon, stretching away to the east and west and vanishing in the far distance, immense and unbroken . The ancient stronghold of the black brothers was no Winterfell, no true castle at all; but it was only the north that concerned the Night’s Watch .
Tyrion Lannister had seen little of the dwarf since their journey ended . The Lord Commander had given him rooms in the King’s Tower . He dined at Mormont’s own table and spent his nights dicing and drinking with Ser Alliser and Bowen Marsh .
Jon was hungry too, so he fell in beside Lannister and slowed his pace to match the dwarf’s awkward, waddling steps . "I chain him up in the old stables when we’re training. They board all the horses in the east stables now, so no one bothers him. The rest of the time he stays with me. My sleeping cell is in Hardin’s Tower.” “I’ll be sure to tell your father to arrest more stonemasons, before your tower collapses
The Watch built nineteen strongholds along the Wall, but only three were still occupied . The other keeps were lonely, haunted places, where cold winds whistled through black windows . Jon remembered the wish he’d wished in his anger, the vision of Benjen Stark dead in the snow .
Jon heard their cries overhead as he accepted a bowl of stew and a heel of black bread from the day’s cooks . He chose a spot at the far end of the hall, well away from the other diners . Tyrion Lannister sat across from him, sniffing at the stew suspiciously .
A bird arrived from Winterfell with a message that concerns his brother . “I am truly sorry.” Jon scarcely heard him . Jeor Mormont, Lord Commander of the Night’s Watch, was a gruff old man with an immense bald head .
Jon's finger traced the outline of the direwolf in the white wax of the broken seal . He realized he was crying. And then, through the tears, he found the sense in the words, and raised his head . “My brother is going to live,” he told Mormont .
Ser Alliser Thorne sneered as he heard Grenn suck in his breath . Then Tyrion Lannister guffawed. Three of the black brothers joined in from a nearby table .
Vayon Poole, his own steward, called out as he tucked his gloves into his belt . "I will be my great pleasure," Poole said. "My wagons are still straggling through the city. I shall need appropriate garments."
Renly had grown into a man so like his brother that Ned found it disconcerting . “You must forgive me, but sometimes you look the very image of your brother Robert.” “Though much better dressed,” Renly said with a shrug .
"I should have thought that heat ill suits you Starks," Littlefinger said . "I do not plan on melting soon, Lord Baelish. You may count on it," Ned replied . The Grand Maester smiled gently from his tall chair at the foot of the table .
Ned looked down the council table and wondered which were the flatterers and which the fools . He thought he knew already. “We are but five,” he pointed out . “Our good King Robert has many cares,” Varys said .
The Lannisters are the biggest part of it, but we have also borrowed from Lord Tyrell, the Iron Bank of Braavos, and several Tyroshi trading cartels . Ned was aghast. The Master of coin finds the money. The king and the Hand spend it.
“I will speak with His Grace,” Ned said hotly . “This tourney is an extravagance the realm cannot afford,” Lord Renly said . He would have to remember that he was no longer in Winterfell .
The Starks had ridden well ahead of the main column, the better to separate themselves from the Lannisters . Robert had hardly been seen; the talk was he was traveling in the huge wheelhouse, drunk as often as not . He had only to look at Sansa’s face to feel the rage twisting inside him once again .
Petyr Baelish lifted the crossbar and gestured Ned through . They stepped out into the ruddy glow of dusk, on a rocky bluff high above the river . The niches were there, as Littlefinger had promised, shallow cuts .
Baelish drew rein in front of a ramshackle building, three stories, timbered . The sounds of music and raucous laughter drifted out and floated over the water . "Your wife is inside," Ned Stark said as he seized Littlefinger by the shoulder .
Ser Rodrik waited below while Littlefinger led him up to the third floor . “I feared you’d never come, my lord,” Catelyn whispered in wonderment . "I do not understand. What are you doing in King’s Landing? What’s happened?” Ned asked his wife .
Catelyn slid a dagger out from under her cloak and placed it in his hand . “This blade was sent to open Bran’s throat and spill his life’s blood.” Ned’s head jerked up. “Let me tell it all, my love. It will go faster that way. Listen.” So she listened, and she told it all .
Ned remembered Rhaegar’s infant son, the red ruin of his skull, and the way the king had turned away . He could still hear Sansa pleading, as Lyanna had pleaded once . Littlefinger sauntered over to the table, wrenched the knife from the wood .
"You wound me deeply," Catelyn said . It would not be the first time Ned had been forced to make common cause with a man he despised .
“I fear that man.” Littlefinger smiled. “Leave Lord Varys to me, sweet lady.” He cupped his fingers, smiling . He was thinking back to the day Arya had been found, to the look on the queen’s face when she said, We have a wolf, so soft and quiet . “I want you to return to Winterfell at once,” Catelyn said .
"A moment alone, that’s all I ask," Catelyn said . "I will not forget the help you gave me, Petyr Baelish." "I have found you more than a friend. I have found a brother I’d thought lost," Ned replied .
The Lannisters are merciless in the face of weakness, as Aerys Targaryen learned to his sorrow, but would not dare attack the north without all the power of the realm behind them, and that they shall not have . “If I find proof that Jon Arryn ... I must go to Robert.” TYRION “Are you certain that you must leave us so soon?” the Lord Commander asked him. “Would that I could.” Mormont picked up a crab claw and cracked it
Ser Alliser Thorne walked from the room so stiffly it looked as though he had a dagger up his butt . Mormont was still gasping for breath . Tyrion seated himself and took a sip of wine .
“Not so,” objected the Lord Steward, Bowen Marsh, a man as round and red as a pomegranate . “You ought to hear the droll names he gives the lads he trains,” Tyrion said . Ser Alliser Thorne should be mucking out your stables, not drilling your young warriors,” Lord Mormont grumbled .
“I think that Lord Tyrion is quite a large man,” Maester Aemon said from the far end of the table . “I’ve been called many things, my lord, but giant is seldom one of them,” Tyrion Lannister said . Mormont offered Tyrion a chair beside the fire and a cup of mulled spirits so strong they brought tears to his eyes .
The Night’s Watch is dying. Our strength is less than a thousand now. Six hundred here, two hundred in the Shadow Tower, even fewer at Eastwatch, and a scant third of those fighting men. The Wall is a hundred leagues long. Think on that. If an attack come, I have three men to defend each mile of wall.
The Night’s Watch has become an army of sullen boys and tired old men . He was in deadly earnest, Tyrion realized. He felt faintly embarrassed for the old man . Lord Tywin would ignore him, and Jaime would only laugh .
Tyrion was born in the dead of winter, a terrible cruel one the maesters said had lasted near three years . Tyrion’s earliest memories were of spring . The Lord Commander did not seem amused to believe that, my lord .
Lord Mormont moved to the window and stared out into the night . Tyrion Lannister got to his feet, sleepy from wine and tired of doom . The gods help us all if we are not ready .
A wooden stair ascended the south face, anchored on rough-hewn beams sunk deep into the ice and frozen in place . Back and forth it switched, clawing its way upward as crooked as a bolt of lightning . He had just decided to forget his sudden whim and go to bed when the iron cage gave a jerk and began to ascend . The ground fell away beneath him, the cage swung, and Tyrion wrapped his hands around the iron
Castle Black lay below him, etched in moonlight . You could see the lights of Mole’s Town, the little village half a league south . The rest of the world was a bleak emptiness of windswept hills and rocky fields spotted with snow .
Tyrion had no fear of falling, although the footing was slicker than he would have liked . The brothers spread crushed stone across the walkways, but the weight of countless footsteps would melt the Wall beneath, so the ice would seem to grow around the gravel, swallowing it, until the path was bare again .
Jon Snow looked bigger and heavier in his layers of fur and leather . He carried a heavy spear tipped in iron, taller than he was, and a sword hung at his side in a leather sheath . “This is the last place I would have expected to see you,” Tyrion said .
“Your brother is bigger than me,” Tyrion Lannister said with a laugh . “You gave me help when I needed it,” Jon Snow said . The result is likely to be grotesque .
The Night’s Watch allowed the forest to come no closer than half a mile of the north face of the Wall . The thickets of ironwood and sentinel and oak that had once grown there had been harvested centuries ago, to create a broad swath of open ground through which no enemy could hope to pass unseen . There were places where grey-green sentinels and pale white weirwoods had taken root in the shadow .
Tyrion Lannister felt as though he could almost believe the talk of the Others, the enemy in the night . “My uncle is out there,” Jon Snow said softly, leaning on his spear as he stared off into the darkness . Ghost cocked his head and listened. “If he doesn’t come back,” Ghost said .
A hand of beaten silver clutched the woolen folds of each cloak and marked their wearers as men of the Hand’s household guard . The servants began bringing out platters of ribs, roasted in a crust of garlic and herbs . “The talk in the yard is we shall have a tourney, my lord,” Jory said .
Arya lowered her face to stare sullenly at her plate . She could feel tears stinging her eyes . He walked from the hall .
Arya would have eaten her meals alone in her bedchamber if they let her . The rest of the time, they ate in his solar, just him and her and Sansa . Her father used to say that a lord needed to eat with his men, if he hoped to keep them . At Winterfell, they had eaten almost half the time .
This was the first time they had supped with the men since arriving in King’s Landing . Arya hated the sounds of their voices now, the way they laughed, the stories they told . They’d let the queen kill Lady, that was horrible enough, but then the Hound found Mycah .
Fat Tom was at his post, guarding the door to the Tower of the Hand . Fat Tom blinked when he saw Arya rushing toward him and heard the septa’s shouts . When she slammed the crossbar, nobody could get into her room . It was all her fault, everything bad that had happened .
Arya Stark pulled her clothes out with both hands, grabbing handfuls of silk and satin and velvet and wool and tossing them on the floor . Needle. She thought of Mycah again and her eyes filled with tears . “You will rue this insolent behavior, young lady, I promise you that.” She listened at the door until she heard the sound of the septa’s receding footsteps.
Arya had almost forgotten Needle, in her hand . Father turned it in the light, examining both sides of the blade . He tested the point with his thumb . The Hand of the King is expected to rule the Seven Kingdoms .
Arya heard sadness in his voice; he did not often speak of his father . “Lyanna might have carried a sword, if my lord father had allowed it.” “You remind me of her sometimes. You even look like her.” “Arya, what did you think to do with this ... Needle? I was trying to learn, but ... I asked Mycah to practice with me.” The grief came on her all at once .
"I hate them," Arya confided, red-faced, sniffling . "Joffrey lied, it wasn’t the way he said. I hate Sansa too." "We all lie," her father said .
Arya whispered: “You are too young to be burdened with all my cares.” “We tasted them on the Trident, child, and when Bran fell. You were born in the long summer, sweet one, you’ve never known anything else, but now the winter is truly coming.” “Let me tell you something about wolves, child. When the snows fall and the white winds blow, the lone wolf dies, but the pack survives. Summer is the time for s
We have come to a dark dangerous place, child. This is not Winterfell. We have enemies who mean us ill. We cannot fight a war among ourselves. This willfulness of yours, the running off, the angry words, the disobedience ... at home, these were only the summer games of a child. Here and now, with winter soon upon us, that is a different matter.
Arya's father's steward Vayon Poole sent her to Small Hall . The trestle tables had been dismantled and the benches shoved against the walls . A slight man with a bald head and a great beak of a nose stepped out of the shadows .
Arya took her right hand off the grip and wiped her sweaty palm on her pants . She held the sword in her left hand. He seemed to approve. Now you are standing wrong. Turn your body sideface, yes, so. You are skinny as the shaft of a spear, do you know. Now the grip. Let me see.” He moved closer and peered at her hand, prying her fingers apart .
The Dothraki claim that someday ghost grass will cover the entire world . It murders all other grass and glows in the dark with the spirits of the damned . "I don’t want to talk about that now," Ser Jorah said .
Magister Illyrio had urged him to wait in Pentos, had offered him the hospitality of his manse, but Viserys would have none of it . He would stay with Drogo until the debt had been paid, until he had the crown he was promised .
Saddle sores opened on Dany's bottom, hideous and bloody . By the time dusk fell, her handmaids would need to help her down from her mount . Khal Drogo ignored her when they rode, even as he had ignored her .
Dany felt strong and new and fierce . She touched one, the largest of the three, running her hand lightly over the shell . From that hour onward, each day was easier than the one before it . The khal had commanded the handmaid to teach Dany to ride in the Dothraki fashion .
Dany rode at the head of the khalasar with Drogo and his bloodriders . Behind them the great horde might tear the earth and muddy the rivers and send up clouds of choking dust . They crossed the rolling hills of Norvos, past terraced farms and small villages .
Khal Drogo came to her only after the sun went down, but her handmaids fed her and bathed her . She rode on, submerging herself deeper in the Dothraki sea . The air was rich with the scents of earth and grass, mixed with the smell of horseflesh and Dany’s sweat and the oil in her hair .
Dany shoved him away, hard. Viserys stared at her, his lilac eyes incredulous . Rage twisted his features. He would hurt her now, and badly, she knew that . He went sprawling in the grass, stunned and choking .
“I told him to stay on the ridge, as you commanded.” “I know you did,” Dany replied . “Let my brother walk behind us back to the khalasar.” “No!” Viserys screamed. He turned to Ser Jorah, pleading in the Common Tongue .
The khalasar was like a city on the march, but it did not march blindly . Always scouts ranged far ahead of the main column, alert for any sign of game or prey or enemies, while outriders guarded their flanks . Now that it was over, it seemed like some strange dream that she had dreamed .
Ser Jorah rode along quietly for a time, working his words like a puzzle box . It went against everything that Viserys had ever told her to think that the people could care so little whether a true king or a usurper reigned over them . But the more she thought on Joah’s words, the more they rang of truth . "My brother will never take back the Seven Kingdoms," she said.
Dany gave the silver over to the slaves for grooming and entered her tent . The slaves had erected her tent by the shore of a spring-fed pool . It was cool and dim beneath the silk .
Doreah built a fire outside the tent while Irri and Jhiqui fetched the big copper tub from the packhorses and carried water from the pool . "Have you ever seen a dragon?" she asked . “Dragons are gone, Khaleesi,” she said. “Everywhere?” she said, disappointed .
Dany and Irri were of an age with Dothraki girls taken as slaves when Drogo destroyed their father’s khalasar . "Moon is no egg. Moon is god, woman wife of sun. It is known," Jhiqui agreed .
Khal Drogo followed her out into the moonlight, the bells in his hair tinkling softly . A few yards from her tent was a bed of soft grass, and it was there that drew him down . She felt the eyes on her as she undressed him, heard the soft voices as she did the things that she had told her to do .
Grey Wind was there first, loping ahead to cut him off, until Rickon saw him . His fur had darkened until he was all black, and his eyes were green fire . He could hear his brother’s breathless laughter as Rickon dashed across the hard-packed earth on little baby legs . “I know a story about a crow,” Old Nan agreed .
Old Nan was the oldest person in Winterfell for certain . She had come to the castle as a wet nurse for a Brandon Stark whose mother had died birthing him . In all the stories the little boy died at three of a summer chill .
Maester Luwin had sent a bird after Lord Eddard with a message, and another to Mother and a third to Jon on the Wall, but there had been no answers . But to Bran it felt as if they had all died while he had slept . Only Robb and baby Rickon were still here, and Robb was changed .
Brandon the Builder had raised Winterfell, and some said the Wall . Sometimes Nan would talk to him as if he were her Brandon, the baby she had nursed all those years ago, and sometimes she confused him with his uncle Brandon, who was killed by the Mad King before Bran was born . "That’s not my favorite," Bran said .
Old Nan nodded as her needles went click click click . "They were cold things, dead things, that hated iron and fire and the touch of the sun" They swept over holdfasts and cities and kingdoms, felled heroes and armies by the score . And even maidens and suckling babes found no pity in them .
“Hodor!” the stableboy announced, as was his custom, smiling hugely at them all . “Stories wait, my little lord, and when you come back to them, why, there they are,” Old Nan said . It was hard to believe that he was the same blood as Old Nan .
A dozen guardsmen lined the grey stone walls beneath tall narrow windows . Theon Greyjoy and Hallis Mollen stood behind him . “Any man of the Night’s Watch is welcome here at Winterfell for as long as he wishes to stay,” Robb said .
“I am told you were quite the climber, Lannister,” the dwarf said . “The child does not remember anything of the fall, or the climb that came before it,” said Maester Luwin gently . The word was a knife through Bran’s heart.
“I would begin with an unbroken yearling, with no old training to be unlearned,” Maester Luwin took the paper from the dwarf’s hand . “I see. You draw nicely, my lord. Yes, this ought to work.” “Will I truly be able to ride?” Bran asked . The crow had promised him that he could fly .
Tyrion Lannister took a step backward ... and Summer lunged at him from the other side . Grey Wind snapped at his arm, teeth ripping at his sleeve and tearing loose a scrap of cloth . “Summer, here. Summer, to me!” The direwolf heard the voice, glanced at Bran .
“No doubt they mistook me for dinner,” Lannister said . “A moment, my lord,” Maester Luwin said. “You’ve done Bran a kindness, and, well ...” Robb Stark finally sheathed his sword .
Summer followed up the tower steps as Hodor carried Bran back to his bed . Old Nan was asleep in her chair . The wolf hugged him so hard he could feel the hot breath on his cheek . “We can go hunting in the woods soon, wait and see.”
In his dream he was climbing again, pulling himself up an ancient windowless tower, his fingers forcing themselves between blackened stones, his feet scrabbling for purchase . When he paused to look down, his head swam dizzily and felt his fingers slipping . There was no way to go but up. Far above him, outlined against a vast pale moon, he thought he could see the shapes of gargoyles . His arms were sore and aching, but he
Yoren was senior among the black brothers, so the steward had seated him between Robb and Maester Luwin . He ripped at the meat with his teeth, cracked the ribs to suck out the marrow from the bones, and shrugged at the mention of Jon Snow . “Too long,” Yoren said. “Most like he’s dead.”
Old sour-smelling Yoren looked up at Robb Stark, unimpressed . “Whatever you say, m’lord,” he said. “Well,” said Yoren, “maybe he will and maybe he won’t. Good men have gone into those woods before, and never come out.” “Down here, might be that’s true, Maester,” Yoren blurted, “the children of the forest!”
Bran sat beside him in the dark, covered him with blankets, and blew out the candle . “We’ll find a horse for you, I promise,” Robb whispered at last . "Mother will be home soon. Maybe we can ride out to meet her when she comes," Bran repeated wistfully .
Pycelle lifted a tiny silver bell with thumb and forefinger and tinkled it gently . A slender serving girl hurried into the solar .
Oldtown steamed and sweltered by day and came alive only by night . Forgive an old man his wanderings, if you would. Minds are like swords, I do fear. The old ones go to rust. Ah, and here is our milk.” The serving girl placed the tray between them, and Pycelle gave her a smile .
The Grand Maester spread his hands in a gesture of helpless sorrow . He thought it was a chill on the stomach . The weather had been hot, and the Hand often iced his wine .
Maester Colemon is like a son to me, and I yield to none in my esteem for his abilities, but the young ofttimes do not comprehend the frailty of an older body . "Did Lord Arryn say anything to you during his final hours?" Pycelle wrinkled his brow .
Jon Arryn rests easy now, his burdens lifted at last,” said Ned . "Near forty years I have been Grand Maester of the Seven Kingdoms," Pycelle replied . “Every case is different, and every case is alike. I remember now, the widow is sister to your own noble wife.
Grand Maester Pycelle fell silent for a moment, his eyes lost in thought . "What you suggest is possible, my lord, yet I do not think it likely." "The Lord Varys was born a slave in Lys, did you know? Put not your trust in spiders," Ned told him .
Lord Arryn was at his bedside when he died . “Why, no,” Pycelle said . It was a proverb Old Nan had taught him as a boy . The message lifted every true heart in the castle, did it not?
Arya climbed from her right leg to her left, swaying dangerously before she regained her balance . “Father, will Bran come and live with us now?” she asked. “Not for a long time, sweet one,” he told her .
Arya cocked her head to one side . “Can I be a king’s councillor and build castles and become the High Septon?” Ned said . He had come to have a deep respect for the white-haired Lord Commander .
“I daresay he should do well in the tourney,” Littlefinger said . “I promised Cat I would help you in your inquiries, and so I have.” He could not find it in him to trust Lord Petyr Baelish, who struck him as too clever by half . Lady Arryn took her household back to the Eyrie .
Petyr Baelish made a casual gesture as Ned crossed to the window . “Is there a man in your service that you trust utterly and completely?” Ned said .
The wiser answer was no, my lord, but be that as it may . Send this paragon of yours to Ser Hugh and the others. Your own comings and goings will be noted .
Ser Alliser Thorne looked over his new charge and said, “It would seem they have run short of poachers and thieves down south. Now they send us pigs to man the Wall. Is fur and velvet your notion of armor, my Lord of Ham?” It was soon revealed that the new recruit had brought his own armor with him; padded doublet, boiled leather, mail and plate and helm .
Rast and some of the other boys were laughing . “On your feet, Ser Piggy,” Thorne called. “Pick up your sword.” Halder delivered a tentative smack to his foe’s upraised cheeks . The new boy screeched in pain .
Ser Alliser had often sent two foes against him, but never three . He knew he would likely go to sleep bruised and bloody tonight . "Three to two will make for better sport," the boy said cheerfully .
Jon blocked a savage cut at his head, the shock of impact running up his arm . Chainmail crunched, and pain flared up his neck, but for an instant Halder was unbalanced . Jon cut his left leg from under him, and he fell with a curse and a crash .
“My name is Samwell Tarly, of Horn ...” He stopped and licked his lips . “My father is Lord Randyll, a bannerman to the Tyrells of Highgarden. I used to be his heir, only ... I’ve come to take the black.” His voice trailed off .
“No I won’t,” Grenn said uncomfortably . “You’re too stupid to be craven,” Pyp told him. “Yes you are. If a bear attacked you in the woods, you’d be too stupid.” “I would not,” grenn insisted .
Jon was sent to the winch cage with four barrels of fresh-crushed stone . It was lonely and boring work, even with Ghost along for company . He found himself thinking of Samwell Tarly and Tyrion Lannister . Most men would rather deny a hard truth than face it, the dwarf had told him, grinning .
Pyp was a born liar with a hundred different voices, and he did not tell his tales so much as live them . When he turned into an alehouse girl or a virgin princess, he used a high falsetto voice that reduced them all to tears of helpless laughter . He was finishing the last of the pork pie the cooks had served up for supper when Jon sat across from him .
“I’m fat, not blind,” Samwell Tarly said. “Of course I saw it, it’s seven hundred feet high.” Yet he stood up all the same, wrapped a fur-lined cloak over his shoulders, and followed Jon from the common hall, still wary, as if some cruel trick was waiting for him in the night . “All the buildings are falling down, and it's so ... so ...” “Cold?” A hard frost was settling over the castle
Jon Snow cried out, startled ... and somehow, in a heartbeat, his sobs turned to laughter . It seemed the tears would never end. It was Ghost who knew what to do . Jon and Robb had found the pups newborn in the late summer snows .
The old Kings of Winter are down there, sitting on their thrones with stone wolves at their feet and iron swords across their laps . I scream that I’m not a Stark, but it’s no good, I have to go anyway, so I start down, feeling the walls as I descend, with no torch to light the way . He stopped, frowning, embarrassed, shivering in the darkness of his cell .
Lord Randyll Tarly was born heir to rich lands, a strong keep, and a storied two-handed greatsword forged of Valyrian steel and passed down from father to son near five hundred years . Samwell loved to listen to music and make his own songs, to wear soft velvets, to play in the castle kitchen beside the cooks, drinking in the rich smells as he snitched lemon cakes and blueberry tarts . He grew ill at the sight of
Three men-at-arms had escorted him into a wood near Horn Hill, where his father was skinning a deer . Lord Randyll Tarly had told his eldest son, his long knife laying bare the carcass as he spoke . You will forsake all claim to your brother’s inheritance and start north before evenfall .
Dareon was a singer, before ... well, not truly, but almost, an apprentice singer . Sam found him in bed with his daughter, and Dareson swears she helped him through her window . When Maester Aemon heard him sing, he said his voice was honey poured over thunder .
“Listen to me,” Jon said into the quiet, and he told them how it was going to be . “You girls do as you please,” Rast said, “but if Thorne sends me against Lady Piggy, I’m going to slice me off a rasher of bacon.” He laughed in Jon’s face and left them there .
Ser Alliser screamed and threatened and called them cravens and women and worse, yet Sam remained unhurt . A few nights later, Jon joined them for the evening meal, taking a place on the bench beside Halder . “We’re not friends,” Jon said, but in time he was laughing at Pyp’s faces and teasing Grenn with the best of them .
Knights have been arriving from all over the realm, and for every knight we get two freeriders, three craftsmen, six men-at-arms, two dozen whores, and more thieves than I dare guess . The cursed heat had half the city in a fever to start, and now with all these visitors . Lord Renly Baratheon was less sympathetic, jowly Janos Slynt puffed himself up like an angry frog .
Ned turned back to Janos Slynt. “I will give you twenty good swords from my own household guard, to serve with the Watch until the crowds have left.” The Commander had taken his leave, Eddard Stark turned to the rest of the council . “The realm prospers from such events, my lord,” Grand Maester Pycelle said .
The Lineages and Histories of the Great Houses of the Seven Kingdoms, with Descriptions of Many High Lords and Noble Ladies and Their Children, by Grand Maester Malleon . There was something here, some truth buried in these brittle yellow pages, if only he could see it . The Lannisters were an old family, tracing their descent back to Lann the Clever .
Jory Cassel opened a cedar chest and removed a light linen undertunic . "He vows he’ll never touch another horse," Jory said .
Ser Hugh had been brusque and uninformative, and arrogant as only a new-made knight can be . She said Lord Jon had been reading more than was good for him, that he was troubled and melancholy over his young son’s frailty, and gruff with his lady wife .
Jon Arryn and he had been cordial, but never friendly . Stannis had removed himself to Dragonstone, the Targaryen island fastness he conquered in his brother’s name . “Where did they go on these rides?” Ned asked. “The Lord of the Eyrie and Hand of the King visited a brothel” Ned said.
Stannis Baratheon had once held Storm’s End through a year of siege . He survived on rats and boot leather while the Lords Tyrell and Redwyne sat outside with their hosts, banqueting in sight of his walls . Ned was not sure what to make of Renly, with all his friendly ways and easy smiles .
Jory draped Ned’s cloak across his shoulders and clasped it at the throat with the Hand’s badge of office . It was a slim enough staff to lean on, but the Jon Arryn that Ned Stark had known was not one to wear jeweled and silvered plate . Steel was steel; it was meant for protection, not ornament .
The Street of Steel began at the market square beside the River Gate . A mummer on stilts was striding through the throngs like some great insect . Elsewhere, two barefoot children trailed behind him, hooting .
Ned turned off the square where Street of Steel began and followed its winding path up a long hill . The man they wanted was all the way at the top of the hill, in a huge house of timber and plaster . A pair of stone knights stood sentry at the entrance, armored in fanciful suits of polished red steel that transformed them into griffin and unicorn .
Tobho had learned to work Valyrian steel at the forges of Qohor as a boy . Only a man who knew the spells could take old weapons and forge them anew . "The direwolf is the sigil of House Stark," Ned vowed .
Tobho Mott led Ned out a rear door and across a narrow yard . Journeymen armorers glanced up from their hammers and tongs . The master called over a tall lad about Robb’s age, his arms and chest corded with muscle .
“He’s done nothing that requires my forgiveness,” his master said hurriedly to Ned . The boy shoved a fresh fall of black hair off his forehead . “She died when I was little. She had yellow hair, and sometimes she used to sing to me, I remember. She worked in an alehouse.” “Did Lord Stannis question you as well?” Ned asked .
“The truth now,” Ned urged. “The streets are full of strong boys. The day you take on an apprentice without a fee will be the day the Wall comes down.” “A lord,” the master said reluctantly. “He gave no name, and wore no sigil on his coat. He paid twice the customary sum, and said he was paying once for the boy, and once for my silence.” “No of us wants trouble, but I fear these are troubled times, Master Mott
CATELYN "My lady, you ought cover your head," Catelyn replied . "You will take a chill," Ser Rodrik told her as their horses plodded north . It was as likely to kill a crop as nurture it, and it sent grown men running .
Lord Hoster Tully had been a restless man in his prime, always riding somewhere . She still remembered the fat woman named Masha Heddle who chewed sourleaf night and day . “An inn,” Ser Rodrik repeated wistfully .
Lord Jason Mallister himself rode with them, surrounded by his knights, his son Patrek by his side and their squires close behind . Catelyn envied him that; she had come to fear so much . There was no recognition in those fierce eyes, and his son did not even waste a look .
Masha Heddle was fatter and greyer than Catelyn remembered, still chewing her sourleaf . It was those rooms, low, dusty garrets at the top of a cramped narrow staircase . There were no smiles, and no mention of sweet cakes .
The eastern road was wilder and more dangerous, climbing through rocky foothills and thick forests into the Mountains of the Moon . Above the Vale, the Eyrie stood high and impregnable, its towers reaching for the sky . She might have the very proof that Ned needed to bring the Lannisters to ruin, and they would need the Arryns and the eastern lords who owed them service .
Lady Whent, last of her line, dwelt with her ghosts in the cavernous vaults of Harrenhal . irascible Lord Frey, who had outlived seven wives, filled his twin castles with children, grandchildren, and great-grandchildren . The Darrys and Rygers and Mootons had sworn oaths to Riverrun as well . It must not come to war, Catelyn thought fervently .
A serving boy ran back and forth with skewers of meat while Masha drew beer from the kegs . The benches were crowded, townsfolk and farmers mingling freely with all manner of travelers . Three by the fire wore the red stallion badge of the Brackens, and there was a large party in blue steel ringmail and capes of a silvery grey .
Ser Rodrik called for bread and meat and beer in a tone that meant now . "We left King’s Landing a fortnight ago," Catelyn replied . Singers loved nothing half so well as the sound of their own voices .
"I fear not," Catelyn told him . He drew a plaintive chord from the woodharp . "Oh, I’m much better than that old stick," Ser Rodrik said .
“I’m sorry, m’lord, truly, we’re full up, every room,” Catelyn said . “My men will sleep in your stable, and as for myself, well, I do not require a large room, as you can plainly see.” Tyrion Lannister pulled a coin from his purse and flicked it up over his head, caught it, tossed it again .
The dwarf had not so much as glanced toward the far end of the room . Catelyn was thinking how grateful she was for the benches between them when suddenly Marillion bounded to his feet .
Ser Rodrik rose quietly and loosened his sword in its scabbard . The dwarf was blinking at them, blank-faced, with puzzlement in his mismatched eyes . "Our lord is honored by his trust," one of them said hesitantly .
SANSA Sansa rode to the Hand’s tourney with Septa Mordane and Jeyne Poole, in a litter of yellow silk so fine she could see right through them . Beyond the city walls, a hundred pavilions had been raised beside the river, and the common folk came out in the thousands to watch the games .
Ser Jaime Lannister wore the white cloak as well, but beneath it he was shining gold . Lord Yohn Royce had guested at Winterfell two years before . Septa Mordane pointed out Lord Jason Mallister, in indigo chased with silver .
Sansa and Jeyne agreed that one day the Seven Kingdoms would resound to the sound of their names . Ser Balon Swann, Ser Andar Royce, and Ser Robar, their silvered steel plate filigreed in bronze with same ancient runes that warded their father .
Jory, Alyn, and Harwin rode for Winterfell and the north . He acquitted himself well, unhorsing Horas Redwyne in his first joust . In his third match, he rode three passes at a freerider named Lothor Brune .
The Kingslayer overthrew Ser Andar Royce and the Marcher Lord Bryce Caron as easily as if he were riding at rings . He then took a hard-fought match from white-haired Barristan Selmy . The most terrifying moment of the day came during Ser Gregor’s second joust .
Jeyne Poole wept so hysterically that Septa Mordane finally took her off to regain her composure, but Sansa sat with her hands folded in her lap, watching with a strange fascination . It would be different if it had been Jory or Ser Rodrik or Father, she told herself . The young knight in the blue cloak was nothing to her, some stranger from the Vale of Arryn whose name she had forgotten .
Ser Loras was the youngest son of Mace Tyrell, the Lord of Highgarden and Warden of the South . At sixteen, he had unhorsed three knights of the Kingsguard that morning in his first three jousts . After each victory he would remove his helm and ride slowly round the fence, and finally pluck a single white rose from the blanket and toss it to some fair maiden .
Sansa Stark was short, with a pointed beard and a silver streak in his hair, almost as old as her father . He had grey-green eyes that did not smile when his mouth did . "You have the Tully look," she said, ill at ease .
Six monstrous huge aurochs had been roasting for hours, turning slowly on wooden spits . Kitchen boys basted them with butter and herbs until meat crackled and spiled . Sansa and Septa Mordane were given places of high honor, to the left of the raised dais . When Prince Joffrey seated himself to her right, she felt her throat tighten .
"Ser Loras is a true knight. Do you think he will win tomorrow, my lord?" "No," Joffrey said. "My dog will do for him, or perhaps my uncle Jaime. And in a few years, when I am old enough to enter the lists, I shall do for them all." Sansa was drunk on the magic of the night, swept away by beauties she had dreamt of all her life .
Sansa had never eaten snails before; Joffrey showed her how to get the snail out of the shell, and fed her the first sweet morsel himself . Then came trout fresh from the river, baked in clay; her prince helped her crack open the hard casing to expose the flaky white flesh within . Later came sweetbreads and pigeon pie and baked apples fragrant with cinnamon and lemon cakes frosted in sugar . She could not manage more than two little lemon cakes, as much as
Sansa rose from the table, gathered her skirts around her, and stormed off in silence, servants trailing behind . Jaime Lannister put a hand on the king’s shoulder, but he shoved him away hard . He slapped his chest with the jeweled goblet, splashing wine all over his satin tunic .
Sandor Clegane seemed to take form out of the night, so quickly did he appear . He had exchanged his armor for a woolen tunic with a leather dog’s head sewn on the front . “Take my betrothed back to the castle, and see that no harm befalls her,” the prince told him brusquely .
Sandor Clegane stopped suddenly in the middle of a dark and empty field . She could feel her heart fluttering in her chest . “You’re frightening me. I want to go now.”
"No one could withstand him," the Hound rasped . "You saw that, did you? Fool boy, he had no business riding in this company. No money, no squire, no one to help him with that armor. That gorget wasn’t fastened proper. You think Gregor’s lance rode up by chance, do you? Pretty little talking girl, you believe that, you’re empty-headed as a bird for true." He squatted in front
A wooden knight, all painted up, each joint pegged separate and fixed with strings, so you could make him fight . I was scared all the while, and true enough, he found me . The septons preach about the seven hells. What do they know?
Sandor Clegane said not a word. He led her to where the carts were waiting, told a driver to take them back to the Red Keep, and climbed in after her . “Thank you, my lord,” Sansa said, his voice sounding even rougher than usual .
Slain by a Lannister bannerman before Ned could speak to him . Gently Ned covered the boy with his cloak, a bloodstained bit of blue bordered in crescent moons . The silent sisters prepared men for the grave and it was ill fortune to look on the face of death .
Ser Barristan walked with Ned to the king’s pavilion . Fat sausages sizzled and spit over firepits, spicing the air . A serving man with a goose under his arm bent his knee when he caught sight of them .
Ned had hoped to discover the king still abed in a wine-soaked sleep, but luck was not with him . They found Robert drinking beer from a polished horn and roaring his displeasure at two young squires who were trying to buckle him into his armor . "You’re too fat for your armor, Robert," Ned said .
Robert Baratheon tossed the empty horn onto his sleeping furs, wiped his mouth with the back of his hand, and said darkly, “Fat? Fat, is it? Is that how you speak to your king?” The squires smiled nervously until the king turned on them . The boys tripped over each other in their haste to be quit of the tent .
Ser Barristan Selmy spoke up. “Your Grace,” he said, “it is not seemly that the king should ride into the melee. It would not be a fair contest.” “... will be you,” Ned finished .
Ser Barristan Selmy bowed his head in silent accord . Ned was about to follow when the king called out again . "You had the better claim, Your Grace," Ned Stark said .
I swear to you, I was never so alive as when I was winning this throne, or so dead as now that I’ve won it . I had no wish to marry after Lyanna was taken from me, but Jon said the realm needed an heir . Cersei Lannister would bind Lord Tywin to me should Viserys Targaryen ever try to win back his father’s throng,” The king shook his head .
Robert looked at Ned and scowled at his silence . "You might speak up and agree now, you know." "Your Grace ... Ned began, carefully. You never could lie for love nor honor, Ned Stark . We’ll make this a reign to sing of, and damn the Lannisters to seven hells. I smell bacon. Now there’s a son any man would be proud to own to .
Cersei Lannister would fall, and the Kingslayer with her, and if Lord Tywin dared to rouse the west, Robert would smash him as he had smashed Rhaegar Targaryen on the Trident . Ned had promised to watch the final tilts with Sansa; Septa Mordane was ill today . Sandor Clegane was the first rider to appear .
Sandor Clegane dropped his visor with an audible clang and took up his position . Ser Jaime tossed a kiss to some woman in the commons . Ned Stark would have loved nothing so well as to see them both lose .
Ser Gregor Clegane was huge, the biggest man that Eddard Stark had ever seen . He was well over seven feet tall, closer to eight, with massive shoulders and arms thick as the trunks of small trees . His destrier seemed a pony in between his armored legs and the lance he carried looked as small as a broom handle .
Ser Loras Tyrell was slender as a reed, dressed in a suit of fabulous silver armor . It was woven of forget-me-nots, real ones, hundreds of fresh blooms sewn to a heavy woolen cape . He had inherited the keep, the gold, and the family estates .
Ser Gregor's stallion trumpeted as he caught her scent . Ned saw she was wearing the rose that Ser Loras had given her yesterday . But he remembered the dead boy in the cart with his cloak of crescent moons .
Ser Gregor Clegane killed the horse with a single blow of such ferocity that it half severed the animal’s neck . Cheers turned to shrieks in a heartbeat, but his words were lost in the roar . The Knight of Flowers was shouting for his own sword as Ser Loras Tyrell pulled his sword .
The Mountain pivoted in wordless fury, swinging his longsword in a killing arc with all his massive strength behind it . Thrice Ned saw Ser Gregor aim savage blows at the hound’s-head helmet, yet not once did Sandor send a cut at his brother’s face . It was the king’s voice that put an end to it, and Robert had proved the truth of that on the Trident .
Anguy won the archery competition, outshooting Ser Balon Swann and Jalabhar Xho at a hundred paces . Near forty men took part, freeriders and hedge knights and new-made squires in search of a reputation . The victor was Thoros of Myr, a madman who shaved his head and fought with a flaming sword .
Jory brought Arya down to join them, and Sansa spoke to her sister pleasantly . “You must be a terrible dancer,” Ned said doubtfully . "Syrio says that every hurt is a lesson, and every lesson makes you better.” Ned frowned .
Littlefinger’s blade, won by Tyrion Lannister in a tourney wager, sent to slay Bran in his sleep . The dagger, Bran’s fall, all of it was linked somehow to the murder of Jon Arryn, but the truth of Jon’s death remained clouded to him . Lord Stannis had not returned to King’s Landing for the tourney .
Renly was too young to have fathered a boy of that age, Stannis too cold and proud in his honor . Gendry had to be Robert’s. But knew all that, what had he learned? The king had other baseborn children scattered throughout the Seven Kingdoms . He had openly acknowledged one of his bastards, whose mother was highborn .
“I wonder if I might trouble you for a drink?” Ned said in astonishment . “I might have passed within a foot of you and never recognized you,” Varys said .
Ned had a sick feeling in his gut . The eunuch had hit upon a truth; tell Robert Baratheon he could not, should not, or must not do a thing, and it was as good as done .
“You did not trust me?” Ned was frankly astonished . “The Red Keep shelters two sorts of people, Lord Eddard,” Varys said . He smiled a plump tight little smile, and for a moment his private face and mask were one .
Ser Barristan Selmy is a Sworn Brother of the White Swords, and we all know what his oath is worth . Ser Boros and Ser Meryn are the queen’s creatures to the bone, and I have deep suspicion of the others .
Lord Arryn was at the door when Ned called, “Varys,” The eunuch turned back . The tears of Lys, they call it. A rare and costly thing, clear and sweet as water, and it leaves no trace .
Jon Arryn had been Hand for fourteen years . Tyrion Lannister chalked up one more debt owed the Starks . “Meat is meat,” Bronnn said with a shrug .
Tyrion felt the anger all around him, thick and smoky, fed by the deep cuts in the Stark woman’s hands . “Kill him,” hissed some drunken slattern from the back, and other voices took up the call, faster than he would have believed . Tyrion had hours riding ahead of him, followed by a few mouthfuls of food and a short, cold sleep on hard ground .
A good dozen swords responded to the Stark woman’s plea for help . Tyrion recognized the gruff voice; Winterfell’s master-at-arms, shorn of his whiskers . “Don’t kill him anywhere,” Tyrion urged .
The Stark woman had been clever, no doubt of it . There were close to fifty in the common room by his rough count . Lord Tywin would do no such thing, of course, but Tyrion would make up for it if he won free .
Tyrion Lannister was congratulating himself on his subtlety when someone pulled a hood down over his eyes and lifted him up onto a saddle . The Freys would report back to their lord, and the gods only knew what he might do . At the very least he would send his birds winging south to King’s Landing .
Tyrion's thighs were cramped and aching and his butt throbbed with pain . Every twist and turn put him in danger of falling off his horse . The rope chafed his wrists raw and seemed to grow tighter as the night wore on .
Tyrion had known the Lady Lysa slightly during her years at King’s Landing, and did not look forward to renewing the acquaintance . They stopped only as long as it took to feed and water the horses, and then were off again . After the second night they no longer bound his hands, and once they had gained the heights they scarcely bothered to guard him .
Ser Willis Wode was saying to Catelyn Stark as Tyrion approached . He was Lady Whent’s man, stiff-necked and stolid, and the first to rise to aid him back at the inn . "Ser Willis speaks truly, my lady," Ser Rodrik said .
Tyrion Lannister was a great fat oaf with short-cropped hair and a pig’s face . He had made a special effort to learn all their names, so he might thank them later for their tender treatment of him . It was only half a lie; Tyrion was not sure that he will bother to bestir himself .
“The Starks do not murder men in their beds.” “Nor do I,” Tyrion said . “I tell you again, I had no part in the attempt to kill your son.” “The assassin was armed with your dagger.” “What you may believe of me, I am not a stupid man. Only a fool would arm a common footpad with his own blade.” “Why does a bear shit in the woods?” Tyrion asked .
Catelyn Stark stared at Tyrion with a coldness on her face . "Petyr Baelish loved me once. He was only a boy. His passion was a tragedy for all of us, but it was real, and pure, and nothing to be made mock of. You are truly an evil man, Lannister," Kurleket commanded. “Shall I bleed him, my lady?” Tyrion gasped .
Ser Rodrik Cassel landed breathless in front of Catelyn Stark, an ungainly-looking man with wild tufts of rust-colored hair sticking out from under a conical steel cap . Marillion sat frozen, clutching his woodharp, his face as pale as milk . Tyrion’s man Morrec bounded quickly to his feet and moved to help the knight with his armor .
Ser Rodrik tossed Jyck his sword and scabbard, and wheeled to meet the foe . He was a better archer than swordsman, and went to one knee beside the road . The weapon felt awkward and unfamiliar in his hands .
Ser Rodrik shouted “Winterfell!” and rode to meet him, with Bronn and Chiggen beside him, screaming some wordless battle cry . Tyrion felt a sudden urge to leap up, brandish his axe, and boom out, “Casterly Rock!” but the insanity passed quickly and he crouched down lower . He heard screams of frightened horses and the crash of metal on metal .
Tyrion swung his axe with both hands as the rider turned to come back at them . The blade caught the charging horse in the throat with a meaty thunk . Tyrion managed to wrench the axe free and lurch clumsily out of the way .
Tyrion saw Bronn unhorsed, fighting with a sword in each hand . He found a wounded clansman and left him dead . Catelyn Stark was trapped against the stone face of the mountain with three men around her, one still mounted and the other two on foot .
Tyrion looked around. The enemy were all vanquished or vanished . He opened his fingers and let the axe thunk to the ground . His hands were sticky with blood. He could have sworn they had been fighting for half a day .
The dead clansmen were thin, ragged men, their horses scrawny and undersized . What weapons Bronn and Chiggen had left them were none too impressive . They had only three dead; two of Lord Bracken’s men-at-arms, Kurleket and Mohor .
Ser Rodrik: "If we linger here, they will be on us again for a certainty, and we may not live through a second attack" Tyrion moved his saddle to Jyck’s spotted gelding, who looked strong enough to last another three or four days at least . Catelyn Stark looked down from her horse, and saw that he has his axe back as well .
Ser Willis Wode led them out, with Lady Stark safely in the middle . Marillion kept throwing sullen looks back at Tyrion as they rode . The singer had broken several ribs, his woodharp, and all four fingers on his playing hand .
The Red Keep was full of cats: lazy old cats dozing in the sun, cold-eyed mousers twitching their tails, quick little kittens with claws like needles, ladies’ cats all combed and trusting, ragged shadows prowling the midden heaps . One by one Arya had chased them down and snatched them up and brought them proudly to Syrio Forel .
Princess Myrcella and Prince Tommen, Arya thought . A septa as large as a draft horse hovered over them, and behind her two big men in crimson cloaks, Lannister house guards.
Arya was barefoot and dirty, clad in a jerkin ripped by cat claws and brown roughspun pants hacked off above her scabby knees . She lowered her head and dropped to one knee. Maybe they wouldn’t recognize her . The old fat septa moved forward .
Arya slid between legs as thick and white as marble columns, bounded to her feet, bowled into Prince Tommen and hopped over him when he sat down hard and said “Oof,” spun away from the second guard, and then she was past them all, running full out . She heard shouts, then pounding footsteps, closing behind her, stumbling .
She hunkered down in the dark against a damp stone wall and listened for the pursuit, but the only sound was the beating of her own heart and a distant drip of water . When she had first come to King’s Landing, she used to have bad dreams about getting lost in the castle . She would find herself wandering down gloomy halls past faded tapestries, darting through courtyards or over bridges, her shouts echoing unanswered .
Arya whirled, felt leather catch and tear as a fang nipped at her jerkin . She leapt over a ridge of black teeth as tall as swords, dashed through hungry jaws and threw herself against the door . The door resisted a moment, before it slowly began to swing inward .
Arya wiggled her fingers in front of her face, felt the air move, saw nothing . She closed her eyes and steadied her breathing one two three, drank in the quiet, reached out with her hands . It seemed as if she had been walking a long ways when the wall ended abruptly and a draft of cold air blew past her cheek . A flickering light brushed the wall ever so faintly, and she saw that she stood at the top of a great black
Arya could see a wisp of grey smoke drifting up off the torch . “The fools tried to kill his son, and what’s worse, they made a mummer’s farce of it,” the voice with the accent complained .
“If one Hand can die, why not a second?” replied the man with the accent and the forked yellow beard . “Before is not now, and this Hand is not the other,” the scarred man said as they stepped out into the hall. Blinded by the blaze of their own torch, they did not see her pressed flat against the stone, only a few feet away .
The Knight of Flowers writes Highgarden, urging his lord father to send his sister to court . The girl is a maid of fourteen, sweet and beautiful and tractable, and Lord Renly and Ser Loras intend that Robert should bed her, wed her, and make a new queen . But Lord Stark’s the one who troubles my sleep. But now his wife has abducted Tyrion Lannister, thanks to Littlefinger’s meddling .
Arya stumbled over a rock and fell against the wall, and her hand found raw earth supported by timbers, whereas before the tunnel had been dressed stone . At the end she was knee-deep in foul-smelling water, wishing she could dance upon it as Syrio might have . She stank so badly that she stripped right there, dropping her soiled clothing as she dove into the deep black waters .
“I want to fuck the queen myself, for all the good it does me,” the younger one said . “I’m not a beggar,” Arya Stark said when they were alone in the solar .
“I didn’t mean to. I was down in the dungeons, only they turned into this tunnel,” she blurted . “I wasn’t going out the gates,” Ned blurted. “A wizard,” said Ned, unsmiling .
“No, I told you, it was in the dungeons, by the place with the secret wall. I was chasing cats, and well ... I went in this window. That’s where I found the monsters,” her father said . “There must be a dozen troupes in King’s Landing right now, come to make some coin off the tourney crowds.” “No.” She shook her head stubbornly .
"I’m a girl," Arya said, exasperated . "Robb and Bran are at Winterfell, and Jon’s on the Wall," she asked excitedly . “When you ride back to the Wall, would you bring Jon a letter if I wrote one?" She wished Jon were here right now .
“What word is this?” Yoren eyed Arya. “One best spoken in private, m’lord, begging your pardons.” “As you say. Desmond, see my daughter to her chambers.” He kissed her on the brow. “Nothing bad’s happened to Jon, has it?” She asked Yoren. “You wouldn’t let anyone kill him, would you?” she asked.
EDDARD “Robert, I beg of you,” Ned pleaded, “hear what you are saying. You are talking of murdering a child.” “The whore is pregnant!” The king’s fist slammed down on the council table loud as a thunderclap . “I want them dead, mother and child both, and that fool Viserys as well.” No doubt they were wiser than he was.
“If the girl miscarries, we need not fear.” “But if it is a boy?” Robert insisted. “The narrow sea would still lie between us. I shall fear the Dothraki the day they teach their horses to run on water.” The king took a swallow of wine and glowered at Ned across the council table .
“Mercy is never a mistake, Lord Renly,” Ned replied . “I will not kill a man for loyalty, nor for fighting well,” Roose Bolton said . Robert had shame enough to blush .
Ser Barristan Selmy said, “Your Grace, there is honor in facing an enemy on the battlefield, but none in killing him in his mother’s womb. Forgive me, but I must stand with Lord Eddard.” Grand Maester Pycelle cleared his throat. “I ask you this—should war come again, how many soldiers will die? How many towns will burn? “Is it not wiser, even kinder, that Daenerys Targaryen should die now so that ten
"Gods," the king swore, the word exploding out of him as if he could barely contain his fury . He reached for the flagon of wine at his elbow, found it empty, and flung it away to shatter against the wall . Slowly his face changed as comprehension came .
Ned unfastened the heavy clasp that clutched at the folds of his cloak . He laid it on the table in front of the king, saddened by the memory of the man who had pinned it on him . “I thought you a better man than this, Robert. I thought we had made a nobler king.” Robert’s face was purple. “Out, damn you, I’m done with you. What are you waiting for? Go, run back to Winterfell
The king and I have quarreled. We will be returning to Winterfell . "We may not have a day. We may not be having a fortnight," Ned frowned . He did not truly believe the king would harm him .
Jon Arryn's death eluded him . He had found a few pieces, enough to convince him that Jon had been murdered . It struck him suddenly that he might return to Winterfell by sea . There had been no reply, but the silence only deepened his suspicions .
Vayon Poole had no sooner taken his leave than Tomard announced a visitor . Lord Petyr sauntered into the solar as if nothing had gone amiss that morning . He wore a velvet doublet in cream-and-silver, a grey silk cloak trimmed with black fox .
Varys, say. Cersei. Or Robert. His Grace is most wroth with you. He went on about you at some length after you took your leave of us this morning . Ned did not honor that with a reply . Nor did he offer his guest a seat .
Ser Donnel Waynwood told her as their horses climbed the pass . Sometimes she felt as though her heart had turned to stone . Even their names were fading .
Ser Donnel was a stocky youth of twenty years, earnest and homely, with a wide nose and a shock of thick brown hair . He would take a hundred men into the mountains, root them out of their fastnesses, and teach them some sharp lessons . She would not even permit her knights to fight in the Hand’s tourney .
Ser Rodrik is feverish from his wounds . More than once she had feared the gallant old knight would not survive the journey . She had commanded Marillion the singer to watch over him . Ser Donnel hesitated before he answered.
“Your home is at my back,” Catelyn said gruffly . “The years have not improved it, I fear,” Brynden Tully said .
The Vale was narrow here, no more than a half day’s ride across . It stretched before them to the misty east, a tranquil land of rich black soil . Wheat and corn and barley grew high in its fields, and even in Highgarden the pumpkins were no larger nor the fruit any sweeter than here .
“No reason that you and the others should not rest here and recover your strength,” Ser Donnel said with the grave courtesy of the young . Bronn, Ser Willis Wode, and Marillion the singer remained of the party that had ridden with her from the inn by the crossroads .
Ser Rodrik promised to send birds ahead to the Eyrie and the Gates of the Moon with the word of their coming . Fresh mounts were brought forth from the stables, surefooted mountain stock with shaggy coats . Catelyn rode beside her uncle as they began the descent to the valley floor .
Brynden told his brother he was leaving Riverrun to serve Lysa and her new husband, the Lord of the Eyrie . He had not spoken his brother’s name since, from what Edmure told her in his infrequent letters . In all those years of Catelyn’s girlhood, it had been Bryden the Blackfish to whom Lord Hoster’s children had run with their tears and their tales .
"Angry," Brynden Tully admits . "Lord Jon was much loved, and the insult was keenly felt when the king named Jaime Lannister to an office the Arryns had held for near three hundred years" "You of all people can scarce fault her for that," she says .
Ser Brynden, the gods gave Lysa only the one child, and he is all your sister lives for now, poor boy . "A woman can rule as wisely as a man," Catelyn said with a sideways glance . “If truth be told, I fear you may not find your sister as helpful as you would like,” He hesitated .
Tyrion Lannister was making his slow descent behind them . "The dwarf is here, and not by choice. Chains or no, he is my prisoner. Lysa will want him to answer for his crimes no less than I." Brynden Blackfish gave her a weary smile .
"The Gates of the Moon," Catelyn raised her eyes, up and up and down . At first all she saw was stone and trees, the looming mass of the great mountain shrouded in night, as black as a starless sky . Then she noticed the glow of distant fires well above them .
The Eyrie clings to the mountain directly above Sky, and in its cellars are six great winches with long iron chains to draw supplies up from below . The dwarf gave a bark of laughter. “Would that I were a pumpkin,” he said . “My brother is undoubtedly arrogant,” Tyrion Lannister replied .
Lady Lysa has sent down word from the Eyrie . She wishes to see you at once. The rest of your party will be housed here .
Stone was a bastard’s name in the Vale, as Snow was in the north, and Flowers in Highgarden; in each of the Seven Kingdoms, custom had fashioned a surname for children born with no names of their own . Catelyn struggled to find words for a reply . Lord Nestor filled the silence .
Mya helped her mount one while a guardsman in a sky-blue cloak opened the narrow postern gate . Beyond was dense forest of pine and spruce, but the steps were there, chiseled deep into the rock, ascending into the sky . Catelyn’s animal followed of its own accord .
Catelyn sounded so happy and innocent with her dreams, but the smile was tinged with sadness . The Redforts were an old name in the Vale, she knew, with the blood of the First Men in their veins . His family would arrange a more suitable match for him, to a Corbray or a Waynwood or perhaps a Royce .
Iron spikes were set along the tops of formidable stone walls . Two fat round towers overtopped the keep . Catelyn had to dismount a half-dozen times to move fallen rocks .
Snow was smaller than Stone, a single fortified tower and a timber keep and stable hidden behind a low wall of unmortared rock . An enemy intent on the Eyrie would have to fight his way from Stone step by step, while rocks and arrows rained from Snow above . Catelyn nodded. Again they were given fresh mules. Hers was white. There was no kicking, thank the gods.
The wind was a living thing, howling around them like a wolf in the waste, then falling off to nothing as if to lure them into complacency . As they climbed, Catelyn found it was better to look up than down . The steps were cracked and broken from centuries of freeze and thaw and the tread ofcountless mules .
The world seemed to be spinning around her, mountain and sky and mules, whirling like a child’s top . Catelyn closed her eyes to steady her ragged breathing . "Don’t move, my lady," Mya said. "Keep your eyes closed if you like. Let go of the rope now, Whitey will take care of himself."
Mya Stone hallooed for the guards, and the gates opened before them . The last part is inside the mountain. It can be a little dark, but at least you’re out of the wind . Catelyn looked up. Directly overhead, pale in the dawn light, she could see the foundations of the Eyrie.
The Eyrie was a small castle by the standards of the great houses . It had no need of stables, smithys or kennels, but Ned said its granary was as large as Winterfell’s . But it seemed strangely deserted to Catelyn as she passed through it . Lysa was waiting alone in her solar, still clad in her bed robes, smiling .
Lysa whirled, her heavy robe swirling around her . Robert Arryn, Lord of the Eyrie, stood in the doorway clutching a ragged cloth doll . He was a painfully thin child, small for his age and sickly all his days .
Jon Arryn was at a loss for words, Catelyn’s son, she thought incredulously . She remembered her own baby, three-year-old Rickon, half the age of this boy and five times as fierce .
Lysa covered her boy’s ear with her hand . "No enemy could ever reach us up here," Catelyn said . “Is he a bad man?” the Lord of the Eyrie asked, his mother’s breast popping from his mouth .
Littlefinger took his time saying his farewells . He kissed the black woman’s hand, whispered some joke that made her laugh aloud . "The direwolf must be a prickly beast," Ned said .
Lord Petyr chuckled at his own wit. Ned let him prattle on. It beat down on Ned’s head, warm as blood and relentless as old guilts . The girl had been so young Ned had not dared to ask her age .
Eddard Stark had touched the baby’s fine, dark hair . It flowed through his fingers like black silk . “Tell him that when you see him, milord, as it please you. Tell him how beautiful she is.” “I will,” Ned had promised her .
Lord Stannis had the babes killed, and sold the mother to a passing slaver . He could believe it of Cersei Lannister readily enough ... but would the king stand by and let it happen? Ned Stark grimaced.
Lord Arryn learned that His Grace had filled the bellies of some whores and fishwives . For the first time in years, Ned Stark found himself remembering Rhaegar Targaryen . The rain was falling harder now, stinging the eyes and drumming against the ground .
"Lannister, this is madness," Littlefinger said . "He knows what he’s doing," Ned said calmly . The Lannister line parted to let him through, and closed behind him .
Jaime Lannister poked at Ned’s chest with the gilded sword that had sipped the blood of the last of the Dragonkings . Jaime slid the golden sword into its sheath .
Ned Stark screamed, cutting at phantoms in red cloaks who gave way before him . A steel-shod hoof caught a Lannister guardsman in the face with a sickening crunch . Ned galloped to him, bringing his longsword down on Tregar’s helm .
DAENERYS The Horse Gate of Vaes Dothrak was made of two gigantic bronze stallions, rearing, their hooves meeting a hundred feet above the roadway to form a pointed arch . There it stood, immense and beautiful, the great horses framing the distant purple mountain beyond .
Khal Rhae Mhar, the Sorefoot King, was escorted by Ser Jorah Mormont and her brother Viserys . The knight had replied that the king could well do with a bit of shame . It had taken much pleading, and all the pillow tricks Doreah had taught her .
Dany rode her silver past their feet as her silver stepped slowly onward . Stone kings looked down on her from their thrones, their faces chipped and stained . Monsters stood in the grass beside the road, draped only in flowers .
"The dragon speaks as he likes," Viserys said in the Common Tongue . He glanced over his shoulder at Aggo and Rakharo, riding behind them, and favored them with a mocking smile . "How long must we linger amidst these ruins before Drogo gives me my army?"
Viserys thinks he sold you, and now he wants his price . But Khal Drogo would say he had you as a gift . "It is not right to make him wait," Ser Jorah grunted .
In the Seven Kingdoms, most archers fight on foot, from behind a shieldwall or a barricade of sharpened stakes . The Dothraki fire from horseback, charging or retreating, it makes no matter, they are full as deadly ... and there are so many of them, my lady . Your brother Rhaegar brought as many men to the Trident .
Vaes Dothrak was at once the largest city and the smallest that she had ever known . In the Free Cities of the west, towers and manses and hovels and bridges and shops and halls all crowded in on one another, but sprawled languorously, baking in the warm sun .
The Dothraki do not build. A thousand years ago, they would dig a hole in the earth and cover it with a woven grass roof . Most of the halls, even the largest, seemed deserted . “Only the crones of the dosh khaleen dwell permanently in the sacred city,” Ser Jorah said .
Khal Drogo himself was not exempt . Even warring khalasars put aside their feuds and shared meat and mead together .
Daenerys was glad that Khal Drogo did not hold to those ancient ways . Haggo, huge and silent, often glowered as if he had forgotten who she was . He left bruises on Doreah’s soft white skin whenever he touched her . Even his horses seemed to fear him .
Daenerys asked if all men were as false in the Seven Kingdoms . When her son sat the Iron Throne, she would see that he had bloodriders of his own to protect him against treachery in his Kingsguard . Only men were allowed to set foot on the Mother, Dany knew .
Jhiqui roasted the meat with sweetgrass and firepods, basting it with honey as it cooked . There were melons and pomegranates and plums and some queer eastern fruit Dany did not know . The Dothraki would respect him more if he looked less a beggar, she hoped .
“I am your king! I should have sent you back her head!” The Lysene girl quailed, but Dany calmed her with a touch . “Look. These are for you.” He smiled shyly. He looked at her and sneered .
"You forget yourself, slut. Do you think that big belly will protect you if you wake the dragon?" His fingers dug into her arm painfully and for an instant Dany felt like a child again, quailing in the face of his rage . She reached out with her other hand and grabbed the belt she’d hoped to give him, a heavy chain of ornate bronze medallions .
Irri fetched the egg with the deep green shell, bronze flecks shining amid its scales . Dany curled up on her side, pulling the sandsilk cloak across her . She felt the child move within her ... as if he were reaching out, brother to brother, blood to blood . BRAN Alight snow was falling, Bran could feel the flakes on his face . He sat straight atop his horse, watching as the iron portcul
Bran had named her Dancer. She was two years old, and Joseth said she was smarter than any horse had a right to be. They had trained her special, to respond to rein and voice and touch . At first Joseth or Hodor would lead her, while Bran sat strapped to her back in the saddle the Imp had drawn up for him .
Bran had never seen it happen, but Maester Luwin said the day was looming closer . The end of the long summer was near at hand . A few villagers eyed direwolves anxiously as they went past .
Bran snapped the reins sharply, and Dancer picked up her pace . He heard a shout from Theon Greyjoy, and the hoofbeats of the other horses behind him . “I’d race you, but I fear you’d win.” It felt almost as good as flying .
Bran felt a sudden dread. Dark wings, dark words, Old Nan always said . When Robb wrote to the Lord Commander of the Night’s Watch, the bird that came back brought word that Uncle Benjen was still missing . Bran had sort of liked the little man, yet the name Lannister sent cold fingers creeping up his spine .
Bran shook his head numbly, the pain plain in his eyes . Theon Greyjoy reined in beside them . “If your father dies,” Theon said, “He won’t die!” Bran cried at him .
Bran shivered. “I wish Mother was back,” Bran said miserably. “The maester is timid as an old woman,” Theon said . “Can we go back now?” Robb asked. “Let’s hunt down the hunters, then,” Robb said.
Theon and the others fell farther and farther behind, until Bran could no longer hear their voices . It grew louder until they reached the stream. Tears stung Bran’s head . “Jon will visit too, you’ll see,” Bran said, his voice quiet and sad .
Robb spurred his gelding and vanished into the trees . Once he was gone, the woods seemed to close in around Bran . He could not feel his legs, hanging useless in stirrups .
“My brother rode off just a moment ago, and my guard will be here shortly.” “Your guard, is it?” a second man said . “Let’s have a look,” said the big bald man . Father said he had been a deserter from the Night’s Watch .
“You can, lordling ... and will, if you know what’s good for you.” “Stiv, look how he’s strapped on.” “You some kind of cripple?” asked the short woman. “You better let go of my horse, or I’ll see you all dead,” said the tall woman .
Grey Wind and Summer emerged from the green . Grey Wind had a bigger head and longer legs in proportion to its body . Fresh blood spotted Grey Wind’s muzzle . “Dogs,” the big bald man said contemptuously .
Grey Wind fell back into the stream with a splash and a shout, flailing wildly with his knife as his head went under . The direwolf plunged in after him, and the white water turned red where they had vanished . Robb and Osha matched blows in midstream .
Stiv slashed at Bran’s chest strap, grabbed his arm, and yanked . He sprawled on the ground, his legs tangled under him, one foot in the stream . Summer was savaging Hali, pulling glistening blue snakes from her belly .
Stiv twisted his hair with his free hand and twisted it cruelly . Stiv gave a choked gasp as a half foot of razor-tipped broadhead suddenly exploded out of his chest . The big man swayed and collapsed, facedown in the stream .
Theon Greyjoy stood beside a sentinel tree, his bow in hand . He was smiling. Ever smiling. A half-dozen arrows were thrust into the soft ground at his feet . “A dead enemy is a thing of beauty,” Robb said loudly .
Quent glanced over at Theon and quickly looked away, abashed . “How was I to know that you’d leave the boy alone?” Robb turned his head .
“I broke no oaths. Stiv and Wallen flew down off the Wall, not me.” Theon Greyjoy sauntered closer. “Give her to the wolves,” Robb said. “Osha, as it please the lord,” she muttered sourly. “We might do well to question her.” TYRION “You want eat?” Mord asked, glowering .
The turnkey was twenty stone of gross stupidity, with brown rotting teeth and small dark eyes . The left side of his face was slick with scar where an axe cut off his ear and part of his cheek . He was as predictable as he was ugly, but Tyrion was hungry. He reached up for the plate, holding it out beyond Tyrion’s reach .
Tyrion had been cursed with a dangerously big mouth . He huddled beneath the thin blanket that was his only bedding . The skin had smelled of blood and mold, but it was warm and thick .
The Arryns kept the only dungeon in the realm where the prisoners were welcome to escape at will . Tyrion Lannister had been looked down on all his life, but seldom by rheumy-eyed six-year-olds who needed to stuff fat cushions under their cheeks to lift them to the height of a man . The Lady Lysa had said from the lesser throne beside him, giggling .
Tyrion the Imp, of House Lannister, murdered your father . The High Hall of the Arryns was long and austere, with a forbidding coldness to its walls of blue-veined white marble, but the faces around him had been colder by far . To his shame, Tyrion had faltered during the last leg of their day-long climb up to the Eyrie, his stunted legs unable to take him any higher .
Lady Lysa Arryn jumped to his feet at that, so upset he dropped his doll . “The Imp is trying to frighten us, sweet baby. The Lannisters are all liars. No one will hurt my sweet boy.” The hell of it was, she was no doubt right . Nightmare did not begin to describe it .
Lysa Arryn feared she would strike him, but instead she commanded them to release him . Tyrion Lannister dangled between them, kicking feebly, his face red with shame . If not her, then Catelyn Stark would want to question him. This time he would guard his tongue more closely .
Lord Tywin would surely have sent out riders when the word reached him . He wondered what was happening beyond the walls (such as they were) of his cell . Jaime might be leading a host through the Mountains of the Moon even now .
Brandon Stark struck him as unbelievably clumsy . Tyrion Lannister hated being used as a catspaw . The direwolf and the lion were not the only beasts in the woods . He had to get out of here, and soon .
“Casterly Rock is full of gold ... ahhhh ...” Tyrion said, miming a smile . It caught Tyrion in the ribs and dropped him to his knees, wimpering . “As rich as the Lannisters,” he wheezed. “That’s what they say, Mord—” Mord grunted .
Tyrion squinted at Tyrion, trying to decide if he was being mocked . “I could make good use of a strong man like you.” The strap flew at him, but this time Tyrion was able to cringe away from it . He took a glancing blow to the shoulder, nothing more .
Mord raised his arm and Tyrion braced himself for another blow . “I will put my promise in writing,” Tyrion vowed . Some illiterates held writing in disdain; others seemed to have a superstitious reverence for the written word .
Ser Vardis said: “Get him the damnable cloak,” but he went for it . The Lady Lysa wore black silk, with the moon-and-falcon sewn on her breast in pearls .
Lady Arryn had summoned her knights and retainers to hear his confession . Tyrion noted Ser Lyn Corbray, slender as a sword, Lord Hunter with his gouty legs, Lady Waynwood surrounded by her sons . Others sported sigils he did not know; broken lance, green viper, burning tower, winged chalice .
Lysa Arryn's pale round face had turned a burning pink . Tyrion cocked his head to one side . Catelyn Stark took a step forward .
Tyrion roared, so loudly that Ser Vardis froze for an instant . "Does honor stop at the Bloody Gate? You accuse me of crimes, I deny them, so you throw me into an open cell to starve and starve." He lifted his head, to give them all a good look at the bruises Mord had left on his face .
Catelyn Stark looked so pleased with herself, Tyrion thought . How could a trial threaten her, when her weakling son was the lord judge? Tyrion glanced at her Moon Door .
Lady Lysa raised a hand for silence . Ser Vardis Egen had been singularly silent . Lady Arryn sent him forth lame and bruised and hobbling .
EDDARD He dreamt an old dream, of three knights in white cloaks and a tower long fallen, and Lyanna in her bed of blood . In the dream his friends rode with him, as they had in life . Ned had known their faces as well as he knew his own once .
Ser Arthur Dayne, the Sword of the Morning, had a sad smile on his lips . The hilt of the greatsword Dawn poked up over his shoulder . He sharpened his blade with a whetstone .
Ned's wraiths moved up beside him, with shadow swords in hand . He unsheathed Dawn and held it with both hands . “Now it ends,” said Ser Arthur Dayne, the Sword of the Morning .
Ned stepped into the bedchamber a few moments after the steward had taken his leave . “I must know how things stand.” “The Kingslayer is fled the city,” Alyn told him . The story of how Lady Catelyn took the Imp is on every lip .
Ned had pulled the tower down afterward, and used its bloody stones to build eight cairns upon the ridge . It was said that Rhaegar had named that place the tower of joy, but for Ned it was a bitter memory . He did not think it omened well that he should dream that dream again after so many years .
“I am not pleased, Ned,” Robert grumbled . “My lady wife is blameless, Your Grace. All she did she did at my command.” “You were the Hand,” Cersei began, “but now—” “Silence!” the king roared, cold with anger .
“You know me better than that, Robert,” Ned said . “I’ve talked to Littlefinger,” Robert said. “Some whorehouse? Damn your eyes, Robert, I went there to have a look at your daughter! Her mother has named her Barra. She looks like that first girl you fathered, when we were boys together in the Vale.” He watched the queen as he spoke; her face was a mask, still and pale, betraying nothing.
Robert’s face was dark with anger . “How many times must I tell you to hold your tongue, woman?” Cersei Lannister said .
Ned Stark shook his head as if he didn’t know what they were . “Rhaegar ... Rhaegar won, damn him. I killed him, Ned, I drove the spike right through that black armor into his black heart, and he died at my feet.” The king drained his cup . He pulled the heavy silver hand clasp from a pocket in the lining of his cloak .
CATELYN The eastern sky was rose and gold as the sun broke over the Vale of Arryn . Catelyn Stark watched the light spread, her hands resting on the delicate carved stone of the balustrade outside her window . Alyssa had seen her husband, her brothers, and all her children slain, and yet in life she had never shed a tear .
Ser Rodrik tugged at his whiskers as he was recovering from his wounds . “My father would not have given the defense of Riverrun over to Edmure,” she said . Catelyn grimaced .
Catelyn waited outside her door as Lysa summoned the servants she had given her . The shy girl she had known at Riverrun had grown into a woman proud, fearful, cruel, dreamy, reckless, timid, stubborn, vain, and above all, inconstant . "Lannister is my prisoner," she told Ser Rodrik as they made their way through the cold white halls .
The Vale cannot spare a thousand swords, nor even one, Uncle, she said. You are the Knight of the Gate. Your place is here.” Catelyn could not pretend to surprise . Ser Rodrik and I are returning to Winterfell .
Lysa, freshly scrubbed and garbed in cream velvet with a rope of sapphires and moonstones around her milk-white neck, was holding court on the terrace overlooking the scene of the combat . A wooden platform had been built to elevate Robert’s chair; there the Lord of the Eyrie sat, giggling and clapping his hands as a humpbacked puppeteer in blue-and-white motley made two wooden knights hack and slash at each
The gods are smiling on us. Do try a cup of the wine, sweet sister. Lord Hunter was kind enough to send for it, from his own cellars.” “Thank you, no. Lysa, we must talk.” “After,” her sister promised, already beginning to turn away from her. “Now.” Catelyn spoke more loudly than she’d intended. “Small chance of that, my lady,” Lord Hunter assured her .
Ser Lyn Corbray said: “When the Kingslayer receives the Imp’s head, it will be a warning to him.” “Lord Robert wants to see him fly,” she said, as if that settled the matter . “I remind you, the dwarf murdered my lord husband!” Her voice rose .
Lord Robert shrieked with delight as one of the puppet knights sliced the other in half, spilling a flood of red sawdust onto the terrace . She turned to behold Maester Colemon, a cup of wine in his hand . The prospect of bloodshed has my nerves all a-fray .
Ser Vardis Egen was steel from head to heel, encased in heavy plate armor over mail and padded surcoat . A skirt of lobstered metal covered him from waist to midthigh, while a solid gorget encircled his throat . Bronn was so lightly armored he looked almost naked beside the knight .
The septon removed a faceted crystal sphere from the soft cloth bag at his waist . He lifted it high above his head, and the light shattered across the Imp’s face . In a high, solemn, singsong voice, the septon asked the gods to look down and bear witness, to find the truth in this man’s soul .
Ser Vardis wore it whenever he sat the Iron Throne in King Robert’s place . The engraved silver blade was beautiful beyond a doubt . Catelyn said nothing; she was weary of futile arguments with her sister .
Ser Vardis attacked, slashing, but Bronn leapt away from him . The sellsword circled left, away from the shield, toward the knight’s unprotected side . Catelyn looked to Ser Rodrik. Her master-at-arms gave a curt shake of his head .
Brandon Stark was a man grown, and he drove Littlefinger all the way across the bailey and down the water stair, raining steel on him with every step . When the river was lapping at their ankles, Petyr ended it with a brutal backhand cut that bit through petyr’s rings and leather into the soft flesh below the ribs . She thought she had forgotten that.
Littlefinger was strong enough to leave Riverrun, but her lord father forbade her to visit him in the tower where he lay abed . Petyr Baelish sent away in a closed litter, to finish his healing on the Fingers . The ringing clash of steel on steel jarred Catelyn back to the present . Ser Vardis was coming hard at Bronn driving into him with shield and sword .
Ser Vardis blocked, but clumsily, and the sellsword’s blade flashed upward at his head . Oak chips flew as Bronn’s sword hacked at the wooden wall .
Ser Vardis lurched after Bronn, using both hands to raise his sword . He slammed the lip of his shield into the sellsword’s face . His right arm was blood from elbow to fingers now .
Jon Arryn’s sword glanced off the marble elbow of the weeping woman and snapped clean a third of the way up the blade . Ser Vardis Egen was lying on his side, pinned beneath the broken torso . He spit out a broken tooth, and his coal-black hair was soaked with sweat .
Lady Lysa allowed herself a faint, satisfied smile . It was another sort of death sentence, Catelyn realized . Ser Alliser Thorne took his leave of them .
Halder smacked Toad on the butt with the flat of his sword and shouted, “Toad, of the Night’s Watch!” Yelling that a black brother needed a horse, Pyp leapt onto Grenn’s shoulders, and they tumbled to the ground, rolling and punching and hooting . Jon noticed Samwell Tarly standing by himself beneath a dead tree in the corner of the yard .
The eight soon-to-be brothers feasted on lamb baked in a crust of garlic and herbs . There were salads of spinach and chickpeas and turnip greens . “Do you think they’ll keep us together?” Pyp wondered as they gorged themselves happily .
Jon Snow pushed away the berries, scarcely touched, and rose from the bench . He took his cloak from its hook near the door and shouldered his way out . “It’s not like him to miss a meal,” Pyp said thoughtfully . "The Old Bear’s no fool," Dareon observed .
Jon Snow was down that road, and beyond it Riverrun and King’s Landing and the Eyrie and so many other places . He had no destination in mind, but the sight of it filled him with a vast longing . "You did all you could," Jon said .
Jon Snow swore his vow, the Wall would be his home until he was old as Maester Aemon . He had come here freely, and he could leave it all behind . By the time the moon was full again, he would be back in Winterfell with his brothers .
Maester Aemon's apartments were in a stout wooden keep below the rookery . Aged and frail, the maester shared his chambers with two of the younger stewards . The brothers joked that he had been given the two ugliest men in the Night’s Watch; being blind, he was spared having to look at them.
“You did not wake me,” Maester Aemon replied . “I find I need less sleep as I grow older, and I am grown very old,” Jon Snow said . The mystery of a midnight visitor is a welcome diversion .
Maester Aemon touched his own collar lightly, his bony, wrinkled finger stroking the heavy metal links . "Without us to keep him safe, Sam will have no chance," Jon finished .
A maester's collar is made of chain to remind him that he is sworn to serve . The different metals are each a different kind of learning, gold for the study of money and accounts, silver for healing, iron for warcraft . You also need silver and iron and lead, tin and copper and bronze and all the rest .
“I know one thing Sam could do better than anyone.” “Yes?” Maester Aemon prompted. Jon glanced warily at Chett, standing beside the door, his boils red and angry . “He can do sums, and he knows how to read and write. He’d be good with the ravens too. There’s a lot he could do, besides fighting. The Night’s Watch needs every man. Why kill one, to no end? Make use of him instead
“You think to outlive me, dwarf?” Tyrion Lannister sighed . He swept a gloved hand over the high, wind-carved crags that surrounded them .
“If so, I prefer to die comfortable,” Tyrion replied . “I should leave you here with your fool’s fire. If I took your horse, I’d have twice the chance to make it through.” “You’d do it in an instant, if it meant your life.” Bronn had yanked back the man’s head by the hair and driven the point of his dirk in under the ear .
Tyrion squatted awkwardly on his stunted legs to build the fire . He took out his knife and whittled some thin strips of bark off one of the sticks he’d gathered, to serve as kindling . The Starks look for courage and loyalty and honor in the men they choose to serve them, and if truth be told, you and Chiggen were lowborn scum .
Bronn blew gently on the fire, and the flames leapt up higher . He tucked the flint back into his pouch, and tossed Tyrion his dagger . “I’m no man’s toady.”
“Take care of the horses,” Bronn said, unsheathing the long dirk he wore at his hip . An hour later the horses had been rubbed down and fed, the fire was crackling away merrily . “All we lack now is some good wine to wash down our kid,” Tyrion said .
Bronn yanked out his dirk and pulled the meat from the fire . Tyrion hollowed out two heels of stale bread to serve as trenchers . “If we do reach the river, what will you do then?” the sellsword asked .
The sellsword chewed and swallowed. “Do I look a liar to you?” Tyrion smiled thinly . “Why else would we be so open, if not to lure them in?” Bronn said .
Tyrion was riding back from Lannisport when we heard a scream . She came running out into the road with two men dogging her heels . My brother unsheathed his sword and went after them, while I dismounted .
Tyrion was surprised at how desolate it made him feel to say it, even after all these years . He sat up and stared at the dying fire, blinking at the light . “He did better than that,” Tyrion said .
Lord Tywin gave my wife a gold coin to pay her, because I was a Lannister . Tyrion swung around to face him. "You may get that chance one day. Remember what I told you." He yawned. "I think I will try and sleep. Wake me if we’re about to die."
The fire had burned down to embers, and the shadows were creeping in all around them . Tyrion had raised himself to one knee, his sword in one hand and his dirk in the other . “Come share our fire, the night is cold,” he called out to the creeping shadows .
“There is silver in my purse,” Tyrion said . “The half man would pay us with our own coin,” Gunthor said. “Your silver is ours. Your horses are ours.” “Conn, take their horses.” He replied .
Jaggot poked at Tyrion’s face with the fire-hardened point of a long wooden spear . “Good enough for killing sheep, perhaps ... if the sheep do not fight back?” Shagga roared .
Aegon the Conqueror commanded his armorers to forge a great seat from the swords laid down by his enemies . A white hart had been sighted in the kingswood, and Lord Renly and Ser Barristan had joined the King to hunt it . So Ned must needs sit the Iron Throne in his absence . Save the council, the rest must stand respectfully, or kneel .
The west had been a tinderbox since Catelyn had seized Tyrion Lannister . Both Riverrun and Casterly Rock had called their banners, and armies were massing in the pass below the Golden Tooth . The sole question that remained was how best to stanch the wound .
Ned was clad in a linen doublet with the direwolf of Stark on the breast . His black wool cloak was fastened at the collar by his silver hand of office . "I keep ... I kept an alehouse, m’lord, in Sherrer, by the stone bridge," a farmer beside him said .
The Iron Throne was full of traps for the unwary . The songs said it had taken a thousand blades to make it, heated white-hot in the furnace breath of Balerion the Black Dread .
Ser Marq Piper was a bantam rooster of a youth, too young and too hot-blooded for Ned’s taste . He gestured toward one of the ragged survivors . “You. Yes, you, no one’s going to hurt you. Tell the Hand what you told me.” The old man bobbed his head .
Ser Gregor Clegane stood bannerman to Lord Tywin Lannister . He studied the frightened faces of the villagers . “As large as the Mountain That Rides?” Ser Raymun said hotly .
Petyr Baelish lost interest in his quill and leaned forward . Ser Raymun Darry spoke up at the council table below . "I fear we might have forgotten that if you had not pointed it out"
Ser Marq Piper says he has sent men to every village and holdfast within a day’s ride of the border . "The next raider will not have such an easy time of it," Ser Karyl says . He would try to hold every inch of his soil, to defend every man, woman, and child who named him lord .
"It is all the king’s justice," Grand Maester Pycelle told him . "The king is hunting across the river and may not return for days," Lord Eddard said . He saw a familiar face beneath the tapestries .
Slowly Ned struggled to his feet, pushing himself up from the throne with the strength of his arms, his shattered leg screaming inside its cast . He gestured at his broken leg as a handsome stripling of a boy strode forth boldly . “I beg you the honor of acting in your place,” Ser Loras Tyrell said haughtily .
The Knight of Flowers seemed perplexed when the echo of his words had died away . Loras Tyrell seemed almost as young as Robb . Alyn and Porther climbed the steep iron steps to help him back down .
“Ser Loras is young,” said Ned. “I daresay he will outgrow the disappointment.” “And Ser Ilyn?” The eunuch stroked a plump, powdered cheek . “No slight was intended.” “I remind you, the Paynes are bannermen to House Lannister,” Varys said .
Ser Gregor was the monster and Ser Loras the true hero who would slay him . Father had refused him! It had upset her more than she could tell . Lord Baelish had said, “Oh, I don’t know, Septa. Some of her lord father’s decisions could do with a bit of questioning. The young lady is as wise as she is lovely.”
Jeyne had been in love with Lord Beric ever since she had first glimpsed him in the lists . She thought she was being silly, but was only a steward’s daughter . It would have been unkind to say so, so Sansa changed the subject .
Jeyne blurted out, as if she’d been reading Sansa’s thoughts . She hated stables, smelly places full of manure and flies .
Sansa had always imagined the Night’s Watch to be men like Uncle Benjen . In the songs, they were called the black knights of the Wall . But this man had been crookbacked and hideous and he looked as though he might have lice .
Alyn carried the Stark banner to behead Ser Gregor Clegane . She turned to Septa Mordane, who was eating porridge with a wooden spoon . "Septa, will Lord Beric spike ser Gregor’s head on his own gate?" she asked .
Arya shrieked as she flung orange across the table . It caught her in the middle of the forehead with a wet squish and plopped down into her lap . “You’re horrible,” she screamed at her sister. “They should have killed you instead of Lady!” Septa Mordane came lurching to her feet .
Septa Mordane marched her into the solar, his plaster-wrapped leg stiff beneath the table . When she reached her bedchamber, she barred the door and took off her dress . The blood orange had left a blotchy red stain on the silk . She flung it into the cold hearth, on top of the ashes of last night’s fire .
Septa Mordane had put on a lovely pale green damask gown and a look of remorse . She was still wearing the ratty leathers and roughspun she’d worn at breakfast . The septa bowed and left. “Arya started it,” Sansa said quickly .
Eddard Stark favored his daughters with a tired smile . “I didn’t do anything wrong,” Sansa pleaded with him . "I don’t want to go back.” She loved King’s Landing .
“I don’t want someone brave and gentle, I want him. We’ll be ever so happy, just like in the songs, you’ll see. I’ll give him a son with golden hair, and one day he’s the king of all the realm, the greatest king that ever was,” she said. “Gods,” he shouted softly, “out of the mouth of babes ...
Sansa cried as Septa Mordane marched them down the steps . "I am certain your lord father knows what is best for you," Arya said . She touched her on the arm. "You ought to marry Hodor, you’re just like him, stupid and hairy and ugly!" She barred the door behind her .
Ned feared he would be. You will recall, I said as much in council.” “Let him be wroth,” Ned said . The only thing His Grace enjoys more than hunting is making war on lords who defy him.” Pycelle pulled back, his chain jangling .
Sansa had declared, angry and unknowing, and the simple truth of it had twisted inside him, cold as death . This was the sword that killed Jon Arryn, Ned thought then, and it will kill Robert as well, a slower death but full as certain . Shattered legs may heal in time, but some betrayals fester and poison the soul .
Lord Petyr said he'd stay in the forest until you and the queen both die of old age . Robert was in a fury, until he heard talk of some monstrous boar deeper . “The Hound?” Ned asked, frowning .
Lord Petyr spied Grand Maester Malleon’s massive tome on the table . The man was too clever by half, a mocking smile never far from his lips . Littlefinger had concealed Catelyn and helped Ned in his inquiries .
Lord Tywin had laid the bodies beneath the Iron Throne . That was clever of him; the blood did not show so badly against the red cloth . The realm could not withstand a second mad king, another dance of blood and vengeance . Ser Barristan was scarcely the only man he had pardoned .
Ned's leg was screaming as they lowered him to the grass beside the heart tree . He drew a paper from his sleeve, sealed with the sigil of his House . The heart tree was an oak, brown and faceless, yet Ned Stark still felt the presence of his gods.
Cersei Lannister drew back the hood of her brown cloak . He saw the bruise where the king had struck her . It had been a long time since Ned Stark had seen her beauty .
The Targaryens wed brother to sister for three hundred years, to keep the bloodlines pure. And Jaime and I are more than brother and sister. We shared a womb together. When he is in me, I feel ... whole.” To her credit, Cersei did not look away .
Grand Maester Malleon recorded the last mating between stag and lion ninety years ago, when Tya Lannister wed Gowen Baratheon, third son of the reigning lord . Their only issue, an unnamed lad, died in infancy . The truth was there in front of them all the time, written on the children’s faces .
Ned Stark thought of pale blue roses, and for a moment he wanted to weep . “Save your pity for yourself, Lord Stark. I want none of it.” “Must!” She put her hand on his good leg, just above the knee .
"I do not kill children. You would do well to listen, my lady. I shall say this only once." When the king returns from his hunt, I intend to lay the truth before him. You must be gone by then. You and your children, all three, and not to Casterly Rock. "A sweeter cup than your father served Rhaegar’s children," Ned said .
The heart of a stallion would make her son strong and swift and fearless . Warm blood filled her mouth and ran down over her chin . The taste threatened to gag her, but she made herself chew and swallow . Her handmaids had helped her ready herself for the ceremony .
The wild stallion’s heart was all muscle, and Dany had to worry it with teeth and nails . Khal Drogo stood over her as she ate, his face as hard as a bronze shield . He wore gold rings in his mustache, gold bells in his braid, and a heavy belt of solid gold medallions around his waist .
The Dothraki believed the stars were horses made of fire, a great herd that galloped across the sky by night . As the smoke ascended, the chanting died away and the crone closed her single eye, the better to peer into the future .
“The prince is riding, and he shall be the stallion who mounts the world!” the onlookers cried in echo, until the night rang to the sound of their voices . “He shall be called Rhaego,” she said, using the words Jhiqui had taught her .
The crones of the dosh khaleen came first, with their eunuchs and slaves . Some supported themselves with tall carved staffs as they struggled along on ancient, shaking legs, while others walked as proud as any horselord .
Khal Drogo looked down at her. His face was a copper mask, yet under the long black mustache, drooping beneath the weight of its gold rings . They rode to the lake the Dothraki called the Womb of the World, its water still and calm .
Khal Drogo laced himself up, and horses were brought to the lakeshore . He spurred his stallion, and set off down the godsway beneath the moon and stars . She went to him and helped him unlace .
Flames leapt ten feet in the air from three huge stone-lined firepits . The hall was crowded and noisy when they entered, the cushions packed with those whose rank and name were not sufficient to allow them . Half-clothed women spun and danced on the low tables .
Ser Jorah Mormont spied near the center of the hall, close to the middle firepit . It was a place of respect, if not high honor; the Dothraki esteemed the knight’s prowess with a sword . The knight seated himself cross-legged on the cushion .
Ser Jorah wiped the grease off his mouth with the back of his hand and leaned close over the table . "He is my brother ... and my true king." "You ought to have gone with him, to keep him safe. You are his sworn sword," he reminded her .
“You do not understand, ser,” said Ser Jorah . “No longer, Khaleesi. You belong to the Dothraki now. In your womb rides the stallion who mounts the world” He held out his cup, and a slave filled it with fermented mare’s milk .
The Dothraki eyed the sword as he passed; Dany heard curses and threats . The music died away in a nervous stammering of drums . “Go to him. Bring him here. Tell him he can have the dragon’s eggs if that is what he wants,” Viserys shouted .
Ser Jorah was standing beside Viserys, screaming in his ear, but the roar in the hall was so thunderous that Dany could not hear what he was saying . She backed off a step, and her brother climbed unsteadily to his feet . He waved the sword over his head, the borrowed blade that Magister Illyrio had given him .
He stalked toward her, slashing at the air as if to cut a path through a wall of enemies . He laid the point of his sword between Daenerys’s breasts and slid it downward, over the curve of her belly . “I want what I came for, or I’m taking you back,” he told her .
Khal Drogo spoke a few brusque sentences in Dothraki . It had grown so silent in the hall that she could hear the bells in his hair . He said you shall have a splendid golden crown that men shall tremble to behold.
Viserys Targaryen was walking through the crypts beneath Winterfell, as he had walked a thousand times before . The Kings of Winter watched him pass with eyes of ice, and direwolves turned their great stone heads and snarled . He came to the tomb where his father slept with Brandon and Lyanna beside him .
Eddard Stark stumbled his way across the darkened chamber . He found Tomard with an upraised fist, and Cayn with a taper in hand . The man’s face might have been carved of stone .
The royal apartments were in Maegor’s Holdfast, a massive square fortress that nestled in the heart of the Red Keep behind walls twelve feet thick . Ser Boros Blount guarded the far end of the bridge, white steel armor ghostly in the moonlight . Ned had only to look at him to know something was dreadfully wrong .
Lord Renly was still in his hunting greens, his cloak spattered with blood . “My own fault. Too much wine, damn me to hell. Missed my thrust.” “And where were you?” Ned demanded of Lord Renley . Eddard Stark lifted the boar. They had done what they could to close him up .
Grand Maester Pycelle gave Ned a stricken look as he shuffled from the room . His leg was throbbing so badly he was almost blind with pain .
"I killed the bastard, didn’t I?" A lock of matted black hair fell across his eyes as he glared up at Ned . "Gods have mercy," he swallowed his agony . The king coughed, bringing up blood .
Ned bent his head and wrote, but where the king had said “my son Joffrey,” he scrawled “my heir” instead . The deceit made him feel soiled. The lies we tell for love, he thought . “You must not do this. Don’t die on me. The realm needs you,” Ned said .
Ned was not laughing. “Ought to laugh, but it hurts too much.” The servants rushed back in and hurried to feed the fires . The queen had gone; that was some small relief, at least.
Ned watched his old friend sag softly into the pillows as the milk of the poppy washed the pain from his face . It took them two days to get him back. By the time I saw him, it was too late. I can lessen His Grace’s suffering .
“No one could know this one would be his death.” “You are kind to say so, Lord Eddard.” “The king himself said as much. He blamed the wine.” “I wonder, Ser Barristan,” asked Varys, so quietly, “who gave the king this wine?” Ned had not heard the eunuch approach, but when he looked around, there he stood .
Ser Kevan Lannister’s son, nephew to Lord Tywin and cousin to the queen . “I hope the dear sweet lad does not blame himself.” “You mention children. Robert had a change of heart concerning Daenerys Targaryen. Whatever arrangements you made, I want unmade. At once,” Varys said .
Lord Renly turned away and went back across the moat, to the tower where his brother lay dying . When Ned returned to his chambers, he felt weary and heartsick, yet there was no question of his going back to sleep, not now . The council will confirm you as Lord Protector and make Joffrey your ward .
Cayn bowed and took his leave, and Ned turned to Tomard . “Ten men, with Porther in command,” Ned said . He wanted someone more solid and sensible to keep watch over his daughters .
Lord Eddard Stark sat staring at the flame of the candle that burned beside him on the table . He wanted nothing so much as to seek out the godswood, to kneel before the heart tree and pray for the life of Robert Baratheon . Ned took out the king’s last letter. A roll of crisp white parchment sealed with golden wax, a few short words and a smear of blood .
Ned wanted to hear Bran’s laughter once more, to go hawking with Robb . He wanted to drift off to a dreamless sleep in his own bed with his arms wrapped tight around his lady, Catelyn . Ned thanked his guards and sent them away .
Lord Petyr stroked his pointed beard as he considered the matter . “Stannis cannot take the throne without your help. If you’re wise, you’ll make certain Joffrey succeed.” “Oh, a shred, surely,” Littlefinger replied negligently .
The power is yours, Lord Stark. You are the Hand of the King and Protector of the Realm. It will be four years before Joffrey comes of age. By then he will look to you as a second father, and if not, well ... four years is a good long while, my lord.
"I shall do my best to forget your wisdom," Ned said with distaste . The queen has a dozen knights and a hundred men-at-arms who will do whatever she commands . There is small love lost between Lord Renly and the Lannisters .
Lord Petyr flicked at the dagger with his finger, setting it spinning in place . When at last it slowed to a stop, the blade pointed at Littlefinger . He looked Ned full in the face, his grey-green eyes bright with mockery .
The day was warm and sunny, so the ice seemed to sparkle and shine . Inside the sept, the great crystal caught the morning light as it streamed through the south-facing window and spread it in a rainbow on the altar . Maester Aemon leaning on Clydas, Ser Alliser cold-eyed and grim .
A man of the Night’s Watch takes no wife and fathers no sons . Our mistress is honor. And you are the only sons we shall ever know . The Old Bear paused for a moment before he said, “I do, my lord.” “I expect you will want to say your words before a heart tree, as your uncle did,” Jon said .
Mormont himself confirmed Grenn’s doubts . “Castle Black has no need of a godswood.” “My lord.” “Might I ... might I go as well?” Sam replied .
Bowen Marsh stepped forward and handed him a paper . Halder gave a stiff nod of approval . “Samwell, to the stewards,” Sam sagged with relief . Ser Alliser went with him, a thin smile on his face .
Lord Steward Bowen Marsh has requested you for his personal steward, Jon . You’ll sleep in a cell beneath his chambers, in the Lord Commander’s tower . Maester Aemon said, from the back of the sept.
Dareon and Sam left with him. They descended to the yard in silence . “I see Ser Alliser’s bloody hand, that’s all I see. He wanted to shame me, and he has.” Jon turned on him in a fury .
Lord Eddard had often made Robb part of his councils back at Winterfell . Jon Snow was taken aback . He had found the courage to accept his fate like a man .
The Wall had no gates as such, neither here at Castle Black nor anywhere along its three hundred miles . They led their horses down a narrow tunnel cut through the ice, cold dark walls pressing in around them as the passage twisted and turned . Jon could sense the vast weight pressing down on him as he waited behind the Lord Steward . The air was colder than a tomb, and more still.
A thin crust of snow cracked beneath the hooves of their horses, with a sound like breaking bones . When the wind set the leaves to rustling, it was like a chilly finger tracing a path up the wall . The wall was at their backs, and only the gods knew what lay ahead .
Jon held out a hand to pull Sam back to his feet . Ghost was back, stalking softly between two weirwoods . The direwolf trotted to him. "Gods be good," Dywen muttered .
Ned watched Sandor Clegane gallop across the hard-packed ground . Canvas ripped and straw exploded as Lannister guardsmen joked and cursed . Is this brave show for my benefit, he wondered . He broke his fast with his daughters and Septa Mordane .
Septa Mordane rose, but Ned gestured her back to her seat . It was an hour later when Grand Maester Pycelle came to Eddard Stark in his solar . He said, “He hated rest. The gods give him love and laughter, and the joy of righteous battle.” It was strange how empty he felt .
“Your place is here, Ser Barristan,” Ned said . Lord Renly and Grand Maester Pycelle stood witness as Robert sealed the letter . The Lord Commander of the Kingsguard examined the paper .
Ned trusted Pycelle nor Varys, and Ser Barristan was honor-bound to protect and defend the boy he thought his new king would not abandon Joffrey easily . There would be time enough to deal with the succession when Arya and Sansa were safely back in Winterfell .
Janos Slynt pushed open the great oaken doors, twenty feet tall and banded with bronze . It was a long walk to the far end of the hall, where Joffrey waited atop the Iron Throne . They were in full armor, enameled steel from helm to heel, long pale cloaks over their shoulders .
Sandor Clegane was stationed at the foot of the throne’s steep narrow stair . He wore mail and soot-grey plate and his snarling dog’s-head helm . But Littlefinger had kept his promise; all along the walls .
“Lord Eddard, when last we spoke, you gave me some counsel. Allow me to return thecourtesy. Bend the knee, my lord. We shall allow you to step down as Hand and live out your days in the grey waste you call home.” “Would that I could,” Ned said grimly. “Your son has no claim to the throne he sits. Lord Stannis is Robert’s true heir.” “Mother, what does he mean?” Princess Myr
A hundred gold cloaks leveled their spears and closed . Fat Tom’s blade dropped from nerveless fingers as the wet red point burst out through his ribs . Ned’s shout came far too late. Cayn whirled, steel flashing, drove back the nearest spearman .
A strand of hair dangled in her eyes, limp with sweat. She pushed it away with the back of her hand . Syrio Forel stepped back. “You are dead now.” A bruise is a lesson, she told herself .
Syrio Forel has seen queer animals from Braavos to the Sealord’s menagerie . The sealord sent for him, and as many had been sent away, none could say why . When I came into his presence, he was seated, and in his lap was a fat yellow cat .
“Just so. Opening your eyes is all that is needing,” said Arya, grinning . “I am thinking that when we are reaching this Winterfell of yours, it will be time to put this needle in your hand” Behind her the great wooden doors of the Small Hall flew open with a resounding crash . The knight of the Kingsguard stood beneath the arch of the door with five Lannister guardsmen arraying behind him .
Ser Meryn Trant ran out of patience. “Take her,” he said to his men. He lowered the visor of his helm. Three of them started forward, chainmail clinking softly with each step . Fear cuts deeper than swords, she told herself, to slow the racing of her heart . “You are slow, for a dancing master,” Syrio replied .
Arya retreated, her own sword stick clutched tightly in her hand . The red cloaks came at him from three sides with steel in their hands . They had chainmail over their chest and arms, and steel codpieces sewn into their pants .
Syrio kicked one in the face and shattered the man’s kneecap with his stick . The last red cloak shouted a curse and charged, hacking down with both hands on his sword .
Syrio danced away from his cut, his stick a blur . He had bounced blows off the knight’s temple, elbow, and throat . Arya spun and ran. She plunged through the kitchens and buttery, blind with panic .
Fear cuts deeper than swords. Arya was breathing hard when she reached the turret stair . The grip of her wooden sword was slick with sweat . She emerged in a cavernous vaulted cellar surrounded by casks of ale stacked twenty feet tall .
A dead man sprawled facedown on steps, his cloak tangled beneath him . The corpse’s cloaak was grey wool trimmed with white satin, she saw with sudden terror . Arya felt tears in her eyes. She heard the sounds of fighting, shouts, screams, the clang of steel on steel, coming through the windows of the Tower of the Hand . They could kill her father too, and her if they caught her .
A dozen gold cloaks ran past as she was edging across the inner bailey . She hunched down low in the shadows and let them pass . Hullen, who had been master of horse at Winterfell as long as Arya could remember, was slumped on the ground by the stable door .
Arya's only plan was to saddle a horse and flee, away from the castle and the city . As she crossed in back of the wagon, a fallen chest caught her eye . The wood had split, the lid opening to spill the chest’s contents across the ground .
Arya pleaded, reaching back into the chest, groping for Needle . “It’s the queen who’ll be rewarding me. Come here, girl.” “Stay away!” Her fingers closed around Needle’s hilt .
Arya snatched up the bridle and harness again and ran to her mare . As she lifted the saddle to the horse’s back, she realized with a sudden sick dread that the castle gates would be closed . Maybe the guards wouldn’t recognize her. If they thought she was a boy, maybe they’d let her . There was another way out of the castle .
Arya stepped out of the stable. It was the scariest thing she’d ever done . She wanted to run and hide, but made herself walk across the yard . It took her more than an hour to find the low narrow window that slanted down to the dungeon where the monsters waited .
Arya held Needle in her left hand, her sword hand, the candle in her right fist . She heard faint squeaking of rats and glimpsed a pair of tiny glowing eyes on the edge of the light . It would be so easy to hide here, as she had hidden from the wizard and the man with the forked beard .
Arya had been just a little girl the first time she saw them . Her brother Robb took them down, her and Sansa and baby Bran, who’d been no bigger than Rickon was now . They’d only had one candle between them, and Bran’s eyes had gotten as big as saucers .
Sansa Poole chose a simple dress of dark grey wool, plainly cut but richly embroidered around the collar and sleeves . Her fingers felt thick and clumsy as she struggled with the silver fastenings without the benefit of servants . In the songs, the knights never screamed nor begged for mercy.
Jeyne Poole had broken down her door with a warhammer, she said . There were bodies on the stair of the Tower of the Hand, and the steps were slick with blood . They went to sleep in the same bed, cradled in each other’s arms like sisters .
"Please, I need to speak to the queen again," Sansa told them . "If not the queen, then Prince Joffrey, if you’d be so kind. We’re to marry when we’re older." The sound rumbled across the city like thunder, warning of the storm to come .
Ser Boros was an ugly man with a broad chest and short, bandy legs . His nose was flat, his cheeks baggy with jowls, his hair grey and brittle . The beast had the soft sheen of gold, and his eyes were tiny rubies .
Ser Boros said when they were ushered inside by another of the Kingsguard, Ser Mandon, “I’ve brought the girl” Sansa had hoped Joffrey might be with her . Lord Petyr Baelish sat on the queen’s left hand, while Grand Maester Pycelle hovered over them, smelling flowery . All of them were clad in black, she realized with a feeling of dread .
Ser Boros bowed deeply, spun on his heel, and took his leave . She promised herself she would be a lady, gentle as the queen and as strong as her mother, the Lady Catelyn, but all of a sudden she was scared again . “She’s upset you,” the queen said gently .
Littlefinger was forgotten. Her prince loved her. Nothing else mattered . “Your father is a traitor, dear,” Lord Varys said. “No,” Sansa blurted .
“Please, Your Grace, there’s been a mistake.” Sudden panic made her dizzy and faint . “This betrayal would have broken his heart. The gods are kind, that he did not live to see it.” Sansa wailed, confused and frightened .
"It was for love," Sansa said in a rush . "Father wouldn’t even give me leave to say farewell," she said . She had never done anything so willful before, and would never have done it .
“I’m not, I’d never ... I wouldn’t betray Joffrey, I love him, I swear it, I do.” “Oh, so poignant,” said Varys . “She reminds me of the mother, not the father,” Lord Petyr Baelish said quietly . She felt the weight of Cersei’s eyes as the queen studied her face .
“I should be more concerned with Lady Catelyn and the Tullys,” Lord Petyr said . “You must write your lady mother, and your brother, the eldest ... what is his name?” “Robb” Sansa wanted Joffrey desperately, but did not think she had the courage to do .
“You disappoint me, Sansa,” the queen said, with eyes gone hard as stones . “He’s not ... please, he hasn’t been ... hurt, or ... or ...” The queen announced ponderously. “That is a matter for the king to decide,” Grand Maester Pycelle said .
Jeyne Poole and all her things were gone when Ser Mandon Moore returned Sansa to the high tower of Maegor’s Holdfast . Ser Jaremy Rykker turned the corpse over with his foot, and the dead white face stared up at the overcast sky with blue, blue eyes . "I knew you would. Joffrey will be so proud when I tell him what courage and good sense you’ve shown here today," she wrote .
Ghost had led the party here; the pack of hounds had been useless . When Bass the kennelmaster had tried to get them to take the scent from the severed hand, they had gone wild, yowling and barking, fighting to get away . Even now they were snarling and whimpering by turns, pulling at their leashes .
Samwell Tarly huddled beneath the trees, half-hidden behind the horses . Jon put a hand on Sam’s shoulder, working up his courage with a visible effort . Slowly he swiveled his head. His eyes widened, but Jon held his arm so he could not turn away.
Ser Jaremy shook his head. “Would that I knew.” Plainly Mormont was not pleased with that answer . “Two of our brothers butchered almost within sight of the Wall, yet your rangers heard nothing, saw nothing.” “Do we still mount watches?” “We do, but—” “This man wears a hunting horn.” Mormont pointed at Othor .
Othor had been the one bellowing the bawdy song as the rangers rode out . His flesh was blanched white as milk, everywhere but his hands . He knew, they all knew, yet no man of them would say the words . The Others are only a story, a tale to make children shiver .
Ser Jaremy was not known for his patience . Mormont’s eyes flicked from Sam to Jon and back again . “My lord, it ... it can’t be a day or ... look ... the blood ...” Mormont growled impatiently .
Sam shook his head from side to side, his chins quivering . Now that he had looked at the bodies, he could not seem to look away . “A fresh kill ... the blood would still flow, my lords. Later ... later it would be clotted, like a jelly, thick and ... and ...” Sam saw at once what Sam meant .
Mormont frowned, glancing from the corpses to the dogs . Chett tried, cursing, yanking on the leashes, giving one animal a lick of his boot . The bitch resisted, growling and squirming as if to escape her collar .
Mormont commanded Ser Jaremy as they set out . It was well past midday by the time they started back . You are to track them and take them, alive if possible .
The old men called this weather spirit summer, and said it meant the season was giving up its ghosts at last . Jon had been a babe in arms when it began, and then vanished among the trees . Without the direwolf, Jon felt almost naked. He found himself glancing at every shadow with unease .
Bowen Marsh stroded away grumbling as they led their garrons through the icy tunnel . Ser Alliser Thorne was drilling his boys in the yard, but he broke off to stare at Jon . Something’s wrong, Jon thought .
Jon saw that Mormont’s horse was fed and watered and groomed before he took care of his own . Jon wondered if Joffrey would keep his father as the King’s Hand . It would be good to see Arya’s grin again and to talk with his father .
Mormont’s raven screamed at Jon. “Corn!” the bird shrieked. “Don’t you believe it, I just fed him,” the Old Bear growled . The Old Bear tapped the letter with a finger. “Your father and the king,” he rumbled. “I won’t lie to you, it’s grievous news. I never thought to see another king, not at my age, with Robert half my years and strong as a bull
Lord Eddard Stark would never dishonor himself ... would he? He fathered a bastard, a small voice whispered inside him . It is said he plotted with Robert’s brothers to deny the throne to Prince Joffrey . “That couldn’t be. My father would never betray the king!” said Mormont .
Mormont shook his head. "Your duty is here now," the Lord Commander reminded him . "Whatever they do in King’s Landing is none of our concern" Jon finished his wine and said, "You’re free to go. I’ll have no further need of you today."
Jon could not have said where he walked, what he did, who he spoke with . Ghost was with him, he knew that much . The silent presence of the direwolf gave him comfort .
Ser Alliser Thorne recoiled. People were shouting, but Jon Snow did not hear them . Mormont came down to see him, raven on his shoulder . They took his knife and his sword and told him he was not to leave his cell until the high officers met to decide what was to be done with him .
Ghost looked at him in silence . Jon slumped against the wall, hands around his knees, and stared at the candle on the table beside his narrow bed . His legs were stiff and cramped and the candle had long since burned out .
Ghost slid past him, out the door. The wolf started up the steps, stopped, looked back at Jon . The guard’s sword was in its sheath. Jon knelt and worked it free . Shadows lurked in every turn of the stair, and Jon crept up warily .
Man and wolf went down together with neither scream nor snarl . Jon felt as blind as Maester Aemon . He glimpsed black hands buried in white fur, swollen dark fingers tightening around his direwolf’s throat .
The severed arm was wriggling out of its torn sleeve, a pale snake with a black five-fingered head . Ghost pounced and got it between his teeth. Finger bones crunched . Jon hacked at the corpse’s neck, felt the steel bite deep and hard . Dead Othor slammed into him, knocking him off his feet .
BRAN The Karstarks came in on a cold windy morning, bringing three hundred horsemen and near two thousand foot from their castle at Karhold . A man went before them, pounding out a slow, deep-throated marching rhythm . “Burn, burn, burn!” Jon saw the drapes he’d ripped from the window .
Old Nan said they had Stark blood in them, going back hundreds of years, but did not look like Starks to Bran . They were big men, and fierce faces covered with thick beards, hair worn loose past the shoulders . “Don’t act the boy with me, Bran,” his brother said .
A year ago, Maester Luwin would have visited the town even if it meant climbing over the walls by himself . The maester had taught him all the banners: the mailed fist of the Glovers, silver on scarlet; Lady Mormont’s black bear; the hideous flayed man that went before Roose Bolton of the Dreadfort; a bull moose for the Hornwoods; three sentinel trees for the Tallharts; and the fearsome 
“Few enough,” the maester said with a touch of impatience . “To be a knight, you must stand your vigil in a sept, and be anointed with the seven oils to consecrate your vows ... but those lords and their sons and sworn swords are no less fierce or honorable,” said Bran .
Maester Luwin fashioned a ladder in the granite of the tower’s inner wall . He put his hand on Hodor’s shoulder, bouncing against his back in the wicker seat . It was not as good as riding Dancer, but there were places Dancer could not go .
A long column of armored lancers was crossing the moat between the walls when Bran emerged from the tower; Karstark men, following their lords into the castle . They wore black iron halfhelms and black woolen cloaks patterned with the white sunburst . The riders gave them queer looks as they went by, and once Bran heard someone guffaw .
The godswood was an island of peace in the sea of chaos that Winterfell had become . Hodor made his way through the dense stands of oak and ironwood and sentinels, to the still pool beside the heart tree . He pulled himself out of his seat, drawing the dead weight of his legs up through the holes in the wicker basket .
Bran had always liked the godswood, even before, but of late he found himself drawn to it more and more . The deep red eyes carved into the pale trunk still watched him . He felt safe in their sight, and the deep silence of the trees helped him think . "Please make it so Robb won’t go away," he prayed softly .
Robb had been wild as a winter storm since he learned he was riding off to war . He’d refused to eat, cried and screamed for most of a night, even punched Old Nan when she tried to sing him to sleep, and the next day he’d vanished . It took Robb himself and Grey Wind to bring him to bay .
Roose Bolton and Robett Glover both demanded the honor of battle command . Stout, grey-haired Maege Mormont, dressed in mail like a man, told Robb bluntly that he was young enough to be her grandson, and had no business giving her commands .
Lord Umber, who stood as tall as Hodor and twice as wide, threatened to take his forces home if he was placed behind the Hornwoods or the Cerwyns . When Hallis Mollen moved to restrain him, he knocked him to the floor, kicked over a table, and unsheathed the biggest, ugliest greatsword Bran had ever seen . But in a snarl and the blink of an eye, the Greatjon was on his
"I thought he was going to kill me," Robb confesses . Lord Roose never says a word, he only looks at me . "That’s just one of Old Nan’s stories," Bran says .
King Robert was dead at Father’s hands. The Baratheons had laid siege to King’s Landing. Lord Eddard had fled south with the king’s wicked brother Renly . Mother had killed Tyrion the Imp and hung his body from the walls of Riverrun . One wine-sodden taleteller even claimed that Rhaegar Targaryen had returned from the dead .
Summer and Grey Wind and Shaggydog had begun to howl before they crossed the drawbridge, in voices drawn and desolate . It was there they buried Lady, while her brothers stalked between the graves like restless shadows . And Father had gone south, with Arya and Sansa, and Jory and Hullen and Fat Tom and the rest, and later Mother and Ser Rodrik had gone .
Summer circled the pool, sniffed at Osha . The direwolf took one final sniff, spun, and bounded back . “Beyond the Wall, they are the only gods,” Bran said .
Mikken had fixed iron manacles to her ankles, with a heavy chain between them . She could walk, so long as she kept her strides small, but there was no way for her to run, climb, or mount a horse . The old gods have no power in the south. The weirwoods there were all cut down, thousands of years ago .
“Let Maester Luwin ride beyond the Wall,” Osha said . They’ve been known to grow big as twelve and thirteen feet . The women take human men for lovers, and it’s from them the half bloods come.
Mance thinks he'll fight, the brave sweet stubborn man, like the white walkers were no more than rangers . He can call himself King-beyond-the-Wall all he likes, but he’s still another old black crow who flew down from the Shadow Tower . “I tried to tell your lordling brother when he asked his questions, him and your maester and that smiley boy Greyjoy,” Bran nodded .
Lord Rickard and the Greatjon and the other lords bannermen feasted in the Great Hall . It was left to Robb to fill his place at the head of the table, and act the host to Lord Karstark’s sons and honored friends . “I welcome you to our fires,” Bran said stiffly, “and offer you meat and mead in honor of our friendship.”
Maester Luwin sighed. “You are the lord in Winterfell now,” Robb told him . "You must take my place, as I took Father’s, until we come home.” “I know,” Bran replied miserably. “The children could,” Bran said .
Rickon had refused to come down. He was red-eyed and defiant . “He says no one ever comes back.” “He’s a Stark, and near four.” Robb sighed. “Well, Mother will be home soon.” He wheeled his courser around and trotted away . Grey Wind followed, loping beside the warhorse, lean and swift .
Winterfell seemed deserted and dead . Bran looked around at the faces of those who remained, women and children and old men . He buckled on a wide belt with heavy medallions of silver, gold, and bronze .
Dany would take his bloodriders and ride in search of hrakkar, the great white lion of the plains . Drogo was a bolder man than the other horselords in half a hundred ways, she had found ... but not in this . She was so fat and ungainly now that she welcomed the help of their strong arms and deft hands .
"The Dothraki do things in their own time, for their own reasons," the knight answered . Ser Jorah had his Bear Island, but what was home to her? A few tales, names recited as solemnly as the words of a prayer .
Ser Jorah saddled up and rode beside her, with the four young men of her khas and her handmaids . The day was warm and cloudless, the sky a deep blue . She wondered if the gods of burned cities could still answer prayers .
The Western Market was a great square of beaten earth surrounded by warrens of mud-baked brick, animal pens, whitewashed drinking halls . A hundred merchants and traders were unloading their goods and setting up in stalls when they arrived . The caravans made their way to Vaes Dothrak from east and west not so much to sell as to trade with each other .
Dany liked the Eastern Market with all its queer sights and sounds and smells . She enjoyed watching all the people too . The Western Market smelled of home .
Dany saw slaves carrying bolts of intricate Myrish lace and fine wools in a dozen rich colors . Behind one stall an armorer displayed steel breastplates worked with gold and silver in ornate patterns, and helms hammered in the shapes of fanciful beasts . A fat cloth trader from Yi Ti was haggling with a Pentoshi over the price of some green dye, the monkey tail on his hat swaying back and forth .
Dany thought as she watched him stride off through the throngs . Perhaps Ser Jorah meant to find a woman after he met the merchant captain .
Dany took a green-and-red parrot in a khalasar . He was a small man, slender and handsome, his flaxen hair curled and perfumed after the fashion of Lys . When Dany paused before his stall, he bowed low .
“My son has his name, but I will try your summerwine,” Dany said . The wine merchant must have taken her for Dothraki, with her clothes and her oiled hair and sun-browned skin . “My speech may be Tyroshi, and my garb Dothrraki," Dany told him .
Ser Jorah commanded the knight to lift the cask . He filled two tasting cups, pouring so deftly he did not spill a drop .
Ser Jorah offered him the cup. “You taste it first.” “Me?” The man laughed . “I am not worthy of this vintage, my lord. And it’s a poor wine merchant who drinks up his own wares.” His smile was amiable .
Merchant Captain Byan Votyris, a diminutive Norvoshi with skin like old leather and a bristling blue mustachio swept up to his ears . “Take this one away to await the pleasure of the khal,” he commanded, gesturing at the man on the ground . The poisoned wine was leaking from the broken cask into the dirt .
The Usurper has woken the dragon now, she told herself ... and her eyes went to the dragon’s eggs resting in their nest of dark velvet . The shifting lamplight limned their stony scales, and shimmering motes of jade and scarlet and gold swam in the air around them .
Dany placed the other two eggs beside the black one in the fire . She watched until the coals had turned to ashes . Heat shimmered in waves around the dragon’s eggs . A thousand thousand years ago they had been alive, but now they were only pretty rocks .
Khal Drogo led them on his great red stallion, with Daenerys beside him on her silver . As she rode, he ran after her, barefoot and stumbling . No harm would come to him so long as he kept up .
Ser Brynden Tully put the spurs to his horse and trotted briskly toward the banners . Catelyn reined up her horse and bowed her head in thanks . Lord Wyman had grown too stout to sit a horse .
Ser Wylis was quiet and formal, Wendel loud and boisterous . Both had ostentatious walrus mustaches and heads as bare as a baby’s bottom . She liked them well enough; they had gotten her to Robb, as their father had vowed .
Immense blocks of black basalt lay scattered and tumbled like a child’s wooden blocks, half-sunk in the soft boggy soil . All that was left of the great stronghold of the First Men were three towers ... three where there had once been twenty, if the taletellers could be believed . The Drunkard’s Tower, off in the bog where the south and west walls had once met, looked sound enough, and even boasted a few feet of standing wall to either
Ser Brynden exclaimed when he saw what lay before them . "This is Moat Cailin? It’s no more than a———death trap," Catelyn finished . The three surviving towers command the causeway from all sides .
The great grey beast was lying near the fire, but when Catelyn entered he lifted his head, and his golden eyes met hers . Grey Wind nipped at her fingers, playful, and trotted back to his place by the fire .
Ser Helman Tallhart was the first to follow the direwolf across the room to pay his respects . The Glovers followed Galbart and Robett, and Greatjon Umber, and the rest, one by one . Wendel Manderly stepped forward and bowed as low as his girth would allow .
Roose Bolton, Lord of the Dreadfort, had a small voice, yet when he spoke larger men quieted to listen . “I did hold Tyrion Lannister, but no longer,” Catelyn was forced to admit . She had offered to take Lord Robert with her, to foster him at Winterfell for a few years .
“You were fighting with wooden swords less than a year past,” Robb said . “You are my firstborn, Robb. I have only to look at you to remember the day you came into the world, red-faced and squalling.” He rose, clearly uncomfortable with her touch, and walked to the hearth .
“There was a letter,” Robb said, scratching his direwolf under the jaw . “This is the one she wrote me, I never thought to bring yours.” Something in Robb’s tone troubled her . Concern gave way to disbelief, then to anger, and lastly to fear .
“What are you so afraid of, Robb?” she asked gently . “I do know that you have no choice. If you go to King’s Landing and swear fealty, your lords will lose all respect for you. Then the queen, with that much less to fear, can do as she like with her prisoners .
Lord Tywin was bringing a second Lannister army around from the south . It’s said to be even larger than Jaime’s host . Ser Raymun Darry rode with him, and the king’s banner be damned .
"If he comes so far, but no one thinks he will," Robb said . "I’ve sent word to Howland Reed, Father’s old friend at Greywater Watch . If the Lannisters come up the Neck, the crannogmen will bleed them every step of the way," Galbart Glover says . The idea of it chilled Catelyn to the bone .
The Greatjon thinks we should take the battle to Lord Tywin and surprise him . "Though by the time we reach Riverrun ... I’m not certain ... You named yourself battle commander. Command." Robb drew a map across the table, a ragged piece of old leather covered with lines of faded paint .
“I’d leave a small force here to hold Moat Cailin, archers mostly, and march the rest down the causeway,” he pointed. “When Lord Tywin gets word that we’ve come south, he’ll march north to engage our main host, leaving our riders free to hurry down the west bank to Riverrun.” Robb sat back, not quite daring to smile, but pleased with himself and hungry for her praise. “There’s no crossing on the Green Fork above the rub
Catelyn had fought to keep herself strong, for Ned’s sake and for this stubborn brave son of theirs . "My father may be dying behind the walls of Riverrun," she heard herself say .
Gunthor son of Gurn was raising the other clans even now . He wondered what his lord father would make of them in their skins and bits of stolen steel . “It might be best if I rode down alone,” Ulf said .
Tyrion gathered that it was more customary for a boy to burn off a nipple, a finger, or (if he was truly mad) an ear . Timett’s fellow Burned Men were so awed by his choice of an eye that they promptly named him a red hand . If a man was mad enough to put out his own eye, he wasn’t gentle to his enemies .
A low earthen wall four feet high closed off the road, and a dozen crossbowmen manned the heights . Tyrion halted his followers out of range and rode to the wall alone . The captain was quick to appear, and even quicker to give them an escort when he recognized his lord’s son .
Tyrion spied the red ox of the Presters, Lord Crakehall’s brindled boar, the burning tree of Marbrand, the badger of Lydden . The more impressed they were with the power of the Lannisters, the easier they would be to command .
A gibbet had been erected in the yard, and the body that swung there was covered with ravens . At Tyrion’s approach they took to the air, squawking and flapping their black wings . The birds had eaten her lips and eyes, baring her stained red teeth in a hideous smile .
Tywin Lannister, Lord of Casterly Rock and Warden of the West, was in his middle fifties . He was tall, with long legs, broad shoulders, a flat stomach . When his golden hair had begun to recede, he had commanded his barber to shave his head .
“Your brother Jaime would never have meekly submitted to capture at the hands of a woman,” Lord Tywin replied . “The honor of our House was at stake. I had no choice but to ride. No man sheds Lannister blood with impunity.” “Hear Me Roar,” Tyrion said .
The Mallisters still hold Seagard and Walder Frey is marshaling his levies at the Twins . “No matter,” Lord Tywin said. “The Starks are another matter. Lord Eddard—” “—is our hostage,” his father said .
Lord Tywin wiped his mouth with the back of his hand and smiled . He has that fat jape of a priest with him, the one who likes to set his sword on fire . Do you think you might be able to deal with them as you scamper off?
Ser Kevan leapt up swearing as the captain of the guard went flying across the room to smash against the hearth . As he tumbled down into the cold ashes, his lion helm askew, Shagga snapped the man’s sword in two over a knee thick as a tree trunk . He was preceded by his stench, riper than the cheese and overpowering in the closed space .
“May I present my lord father, Tywin son of Tytos of House Lannister, Lord of Casterly Rock, Warden of the West, Shield of Lannisport, and once and future Hand of the King.” Lord Tywin rose, dignified and correct. “Even in the west, we know the prowess of the warrior clans”
Lord Tywin Lannister did not smile, but he learned to read his father’s pleasure all the same . "So the wolfling is leaving his den to play among the lions," he said . “We are well situated here,” Ser Kevan pointed out .
"Wherever the Burned Men go, the Stone Crows have been there first," Conn declared hotly . "Shagga son of Dolf will chop off their manhoods and feed them to the crows." "We will ride with you, lion lord," Chella daughter of Cheyk agreed . Lord Tywin turned his gold-flecked eyes on his son .
Sickly Lord Gyles covered his face at her approach and feigned a fit of coughing . When funny drunken Ser Dontos started to hail her, Ser Balon Swann whispered in his ear and turned away . It was as if she had become a ghost, dead before her time . I have nothing to be afraid of, it will all come out well, she said .
All hail his Lady mother, Cersei of House Lannister, Queen Regent, Light of the West, and Protector of the Realm . Ser Barristan Selmy led them in, so six of the Kingsguard were now in the hall . Grand Maester Pycelle was clad in a magnificent robe of thick red velvet .
Lord Stannis Baratheon, his lady wife, his daughter. Lord Renly Tyrell, his brothers, uncles, sons. Lord Beric Dondarrion. Lady Lysa Arryn and her son, the little Lord Robert. Lord Hoster Tully, his brother Ser Brynden, his son Ser Edmure. Lord Jason Mallister and his heir Ser Stevron. Lady Shella Whent. Doran Martell, Prince of Dorne, and all his sons .
Sansa heard a soft murmuring from the lords around her, but it was quickly stilled . It is also the wish of His Grace that his loyal servant, Janos Slynt, be seated upon his small council, to assist in the governance of the realm . The king has decreed. The small council consents .
Ser Barristan had been standing at the foot of the Iron Throne, as still as any statue, but now he went to one knee and bowed his head . “Your Grace, I am yours to command.” “My lady?” Cersei Lannister said . The new-made lord, Janos Slynt, spoke up, his voice heavy and blunt .
Ser Jaime Lannister will take your place as Lord Commander of Sworn Brothers of the White Swords . “Your Grace,” Ser Barristan said, his voice hard with contempt. “You are speaking of our beloved brother, your king’s own blood.” Lord Varys spoke, gentler than the others.
Ser Barristan looked up sharply and undid the clasps that held his cloak in place . He opened the silver fastenings of his breastplate and let that fall as well . “A naked knight, it would seem,” quipped Littlefinger . They all laughed then, Joffrey on his throne .
Lord Janos Slynt strode from the hall, his ugly sons double-stepping to keep up as they lugged the great metal shield . “Your Grace,” Littlefinger reminded the king. “How do you like that, dog?” King Joffrey asked . Ser Boros fell silent, and the Hound said in his deep rasp .
Sansa was dressed in mourning, as a sign of respect for the dead king . She had fretted over her jewelry for hours and finally decided upon the elegant simplicity of a plain silver chain . Lords and knights stepped aside silently to let her pass, and she felt the weight of their eyes on her .
“As it please Your Grace, I ask mercy for my father, Lord Eddard Stark,” King Joffrey leaned forward, hands grasping the arms of the throne . “Your father has committed grave and terrible crimes, my lady,” Grand Maester Pycelle intoned. “She is only a babe, my lords, she does not know what she asks.” “Do you deny your father’s crime?” Lord Baelish asked .
“His leg was broken,” Sansa replied eagerly . “A child’s faith ... such sweet innocence ... and yet, they say wisdom oft comes from the mouths of babes,” Pycelle replied at once .
The king dies, Ned Stark thought, and the Hand is buried . He remembered the old stories about Maegor the Cruel, who murdered all the masons who labored on his castle, so they might never reveal its secrets .
Ned closed his eyes and opened them; it made no difference . When he woke, there was nothing to do but think, and his waking thoughts were worse than nightmares . The thought of Cat was as painful as a bed of nettles . He wondered whether he would ever see her again .
Cracks ran down his face, fissures opening in the flesh, and he reached up . It was not Robert at all; it was Littlefinger, grinning, mocking him . When he opened his mouth to speak, his lies turned to pale grey moths and took wing .
Prince Rhaegar Targaryen urged his horse past his own wife Elia Martell to lay the queen of beauty’s laurel in Lyanna’s lap . He could see the deep green of the grass, and smell the pollen on the wind .
Ned Stark felt the slow trickle of blood run down his fingers . He felt them clawing at his skin, sharp and cruel, and woke, trembling, in the dark . “Gods save me,” Ned wept .
Ned Stark drank a trickle of red leaking from the corner of his plump mouth . He felt as though he were about to bring the wine back up . “Your hour has come, my lord,” Varys said .
Ned was dizzy from the wine, tired and heartsick . Ned looked at the eunuch curiously, tilting his head . The King’s Justice must be fearsome .
Ned Stark, Lord Eddard, sighed without hesitation . He had feared as much. “Gods forgive me.” He feared .
“If there are gods,” Varys said, “I expect they will. The queen would not have waited long in any case.” Robert was becoming unruly, and she needed to be rid of him to free her hands to deal with his brothers . “You have been foolish, my lord. You ought to have heeded Littlefinger when he urged you to support Joffrey’s succession.” Slowly Ned raised his eyes. “Cersei is frightened of you
Lord Stannis will land, proclaim himself king, and lop off her son’s curly blond head . Cersei knows a tame wolf is of more use than a dead one . Ned’s voice was thick with disbelief .
“I want you to serve the realm,” Varys said . Give her the peace she needs and the time to deal with Stannis and Renly . Offer to denounce the queen that you will confess your vile treason .
Prince Rhaegar's daughter was a child too. She had a small black kitten she called Balerion . Varys gave a long weary sigh of a man who carried all the sadness of the world in a sack upon his shoulders .
She feared for Ned and her girls, and for the sweet sons she had left behind at Winterfell . You must save your strength for Robb, she told herself . He is the only one you can help .
“Lord Frey cannot hope to fight the Lannisters by himself.” “Does he?” Catelyn asked. “I wonder. Expect nothing of Walder Frey, and you will never be surprised.” “He’s your father’s bannerman.” “Some men take their oaths more seriously than others, Robb.” “We must have the Twins, Mother,” Robb said heatedly. “There is no other way across the river. You know that.”
There are a dozen Lannister scouts who won’t be reporting back to Lord Tywin anytime soon . "Ser Addam Marbrand commands their outriders, and he’s pulling back south, burning as he goes," Catelyn said sharply . “Ser Brynden has seen to it already, my lady,” Theon replied .
Ser Brynden Tully rode back to the Twins . He had put aside the heavy plate and helm he’d worn as the Knight of the Gate for the lighter leather-and-mail .
The Kingslayer has destroyed Edmure’s host and sent the lords of the Trident reeling in flight . “We must get across this accursed river if we’re to have any hope of relieving them in time.” “That will not be easily done,” her uncle cautioned .
Catelyn put her heels to her horse and rode off, leaving her son to ponder her words . Did you teach him wisdom as well as valor, Ned? It was near midday when their vanguard came in sight of the Twins . The Green Fork ran swift and deep here, but the Freys had grown rich off the coin men paid them to cross .
The Greatjon began to curse and swear as soon as he saw what awaited them . Lord Rickard Karstark glowered in silence . "You must not do this, my lords," Roose Bolton said .
Ser Wendel Manderly said he will come out and treat with Robb here, in plain sight of his men and ours . Catelyn Stark lied glibly, but some truths did not bear saying, and some lies were necessary . Ser Stevron Frey gave a polite nod .
Lord Walder Frey was ninety, a wizened pink weasel with a bald spotted head, too gouty to stand unassisted . She had been a girl the last time she had visited the Twins . He had been sharp of tongue, and blunt of manner .
Lord Walder replied politely to two of his sons . “Where I might have expected to find you, my lord. You are still my father’s bannerman, are you not?” he replied .
"I called my swords, yes I did, here they are, you saw them on the walls. It was my intent to march as soon as all my strength was assembled," said Lord Walder . "I am well past marching myself, Lady Catelyn," said Ser Jared Frey, one of his sons .
Lady Stark wants to speak to him in private. Might be she has designs on my fidelity, heh. Go, all of you, find something useful to do. Yes, you too, woman. Out, out, out.” “I have every hope that you will live to be a hundred.” “That would boil them, to be sure.” “Oh, do you? That’s blunt. Why should I let you?” Catelyn said .
Lord Walder snorted with disdain . "If Lord Tywin wants my help, he can bloody well ask for it," Catelyn said .
Lord Hoster would not hear of a match between his son and my daughter . It was, oh, a year ago, no more, Jon Arryn was still the King’s Hand, and I went to see my sons ride in the tourney . If I’d known how they’d shame me, I would never have trouble myself to make the journey . I wonder if those two are truly mine .
Walder is Merrett’s son, named after me, and the other one ... heh, I don’t recall ... they’re always naming them Walder so I’ll favor them, but his father ... which one was his father now?” His face wrinkled up . Catelyn frosted up as if she suggested selling her boy to a mummer’s show or making a eunuch out of him .
Lady Catelyn Stark rode forth to rejoin her son and his lords bannermen . Lord Walder will grant you your crossing. His swords are yours as well, less four hundred he means to keep back to hold the Twins . "Perhaps ... Ser Helman Tallhart, do you think?"
“I have agreed to take them as wards. They are young boys, aged eight years and seven . It would seem they are both named Walder. Your brother Bran will welcome the companionship of lads near his own age, I should think.” “Is that all? Two fosterlings? That’s a small enough price to—” “Lord Frey’s son Olyvar will be coming with us,” she went on . “Arya won’t like that one bit.” “
Catelyn rode at the head of the serpent with her son and her uncle Ser Brynden and Ser Stevron Frey . Behind followed nine tenths of their horse; knights, lancers, freeriders, and mounted bowmen . The larger part of the northern host, pikes and archers remained upon the east bank under the command of Roose Bolton .
Jon flexed his bandaged fingers to show him . He had burned himself more badly than he knew throwing the flaming drapes . His cracked red skin oozed fluid, and fearsome blood blisters rose between his fingers .
“You know,” Mormont grumbled. “How is it that everyone knows everything around here?” He did not seem to expect an answer . “I can feel it in these old bones of mine,” Maester Aemon agrees . The Stark words had never sounded grim or ominous to Jon .
Mormont snorted, leaving no doubt of his view of men who’d send gold cloaks against a knight as renowed as Barristan the Bold . He curled his hand into a fist. Pain shot through his burned fingers . It would not be the first time, nor the last. I fear we count for less than nothing in King’s Landing.
Samwell Tarly whispered its contents to Jon that night in secret . Doubtless they thought his brother’s war was none of his concern . It troubled him more than he could say . No matter how often Robb told himself that his place was here now .
The pommel was carved into the likeness of a snarling wolf’s head . The grip was virgin leather, soft and black, as yet unstained by sweat or blood . When Jon turned it sideways, he could see ripples in the dark steel where the metal had been folded back on itself again and again .
Jon had dreamed of doing great deeds, as boys always did . Even then he had known it was only a child’s folly; no bastard could ever hope to wield a father’s sword . He twitched his burned fingers, feeling a throb of pain deep under the skin . “Who will?” chimed the talkative raven .
Lord Eddard Stark is my father. I will not forget him, no matter how many swords they give him . The thought leapt unbidden to Jon’s mind . He could scarcely tell Lord Mormont that it was another man’s sword he dreamt of .
Ser Endrew Tarth is on his way from the Shadow Tower to assume the duties of master-at-arms . Mormont snorted. “Because I sent him, why do you think? He’s bringing the hand your Ghost tore off the end of Jafer Flowers’ wrist.” “Crow.” Jon thought the raven sounded faintly indignant .
Jon slid the sword back into the silver-banded scabbard . The Old Bear scratched at his chin . "I had forgotten how much a new beard itches," he said .
“We want to see the sword,” insisted Grenn . “You’re dumber.” Halder gave an apologetic shrug . The Old Bear brought Donal Noye the burnt blade .
Ser Jaremy Rykker had finished the job of hacking its head off, yet died all the same when the headless corpse pulled his own dagger from its sheath and buried it in his bowels . The grim thought soured Jon’s fragile mood, but it was not their fault, truly . He turned away from them abruptly and strode off, sullen . They had moved him back to his old cell in tumbledown Hardin’s Tower after the fire .
Samwell Tarly stood rocking nervously on his heels . He was wrapped in a heavy fur cloak that made him look ready for hibernation . “I ... ah ... Maester Aemon wants to see you,” Jon said mournfully .
Maester Aemon threw a bucket of chopped meat as they shuffled from cage to cage . The hunched, pink-eyed brother handed Jon the bucket and scurried down the ladder . He shifted the bucket to his right hand and thrust his left down into the bloody bits .
Baelor the Blessed tried to replace all the ravens with doves . The maester turned his eyes on Jon, smiling . “The Night’s Watch prefers raven’s.” Jon’s fingers were in the bucket, blood up to the wrist .
Lord Eddard is a man in ten thousand. Most of us are not so strong. What is honor compared to a woman’s love? What is duty against the feel of a newborn son in your arms? Wind and words. We are only human, and the gods have fashioned us for love. That is our great glory, and our great tragedy.
A craven can be as brave as any man, when there is nothing to fear . Yet soon or late in every man’s life comes a day when it is not easy . “And this is my day ... is that what you’re saying?” Maester Aemon turned his head . It was as if he were seeing right into his heart .
Maester Aemon was shocked to see the shine of tears in the old man’s eyes . “Only a maester of the Citadel, bound in service to Castle Black and the Night’s Watch. In my order, we put aside our house names when we take our vows and don the collar.” “My father was Maekar, the First of his Name, and my brother Aegon reigne after him in my stead. You must make that choice yourself, and live with it all the rest
Dothraki hooves had torn the earth and trampled the rye and lentils into the ground . Dying horses lifted their heads and screamed at Dany as she rode past . There seemed to be thousands of them, black with flies, arrow shafts bristling from each carcass .
Dany saw one boy bolt and run for the river . A rider cut him off and turned him in, and the others boxed him in . He snared his ankle with a lash and sent him sprawling .
Ogo and his son had shared the high bench with her lord husband at the naming feast where Viserys had been crowned . Ogo’s khalasar had been attacking the town when Khal Drogo caught him . She wondered what the Lamb Men had thought .
"I’ve told the khal he ought to make for Meereen," Ser Jorah said . "They’ll pay a better price than he’d get from a slaving caravan," she commanded . The knight sounded perplexed .
“I will not have her harmed,” Dany said. “I claim her. Do as I command you, or Khal Drogo will know the reason why.” “Ai, Khaleesi,” Jhogo replied, kicking his horse. “You are your brother’s sister, in truth.” “Viserys?” She did not understand. “No,” he answered. “Rhaegar.” He galloped off. The rapers laughed at him. One man shouted back
Dany reined up, sent her khas to make an end to it, and claimed the victim as slave . They were suspicious of her, she realized with sadness; afraid that she had saved them for some worse fate . One of them, a thick-bodied, flat-nosed woman of forty years, blessed Dany haltingly in the Common Tongue .
Khal Drogo turned his head, the bells in his braid ringing softly . A mounted warrior rode up and vaulted from his saddle . He spoke to Haggo, a stream of angry Dothraki too fast for Dany .
Qotho was ever the cruelest of the bloodriders. It was him who laughed. “Does the horse breed with the sheep?” Something in his tone reminded her of Viserys. “The dragon feeds on horse and sheep alike.” He started to reach out a hand to Daenerys, but as he lifted his arm Drogo grimaced in sudden pain .
A trickle of blood ran from the arrow that pierced his arm . A maegi was a woman who lay with demons and practiced the blackest of sorceries . “I am a healer,” Mirri Maz Duur said .
A moonsinger of the Jogos Nhai gifted me with birthing songs . A maester from Sunset Lands opened a body for me and showed me all the secrets that hide beneath the skin . “Why should you want to help my khal?” replied Mirri Maz Duur .
Khal Drogo waved him away. “I need no man’s help,” he said, in a voice proud and hard . “We are no sheep, maegi.” “Stop it,” Dany said angrily .
A few torches burnt smokily from sconces on the walls . The old woman threw a handful of dried leaves onto a brazier . Sheepskins were scattered across the mud floor .
The Great Rider is too strong for me. Hold him still while I draw the arrow from his flesh . When she was ready, she broke off the barbed arrowhead and pulled out the shaft, chanting in the singsong tongue of the Lhazareen . She heated a flagon of wine to boiling on the brazier, and poured it over his wounds .
TYRION On a hill overlooking the kingsroad, a long trestle table of rough-hewn pine had been erected beneath an elm tree and covered with a golden cloth . Lord Tywin took his evening meal with his chief knights and lords bannermen, his great crimson-and-gold standard waving overhead from a lofty pike . It was twilight, and the air was alive with drifting firef
Lord Tyrion says he'd best charge you with burying our dead, Tyrion . "Oh, surely you can save me a peasant or two, Father," Tyrion replied . It was the loveliest sight Tyrion had seen in ages .
Lord Tywin had a thought to put you and your wildlings in the vanguard when we come to battle . Tyrion had skewered a chunk of meat on the point of his dagger and brought it to his mouth . Now he lowered it. “The vanguard?” he repeated dubiously .
Lord Tywin Lannister looked at his dwarf son . He spit pork out angrily, chewing a moment . Tyrion turned and walked away. He was conscious of their eyes on his back .
The Lannister camp sprawled for miles between the river and the kingsroad . He caught the scent of garlic sausage, spiced and savory, so tempting it made his empty stomach growl . A woman raced past him, naked beneath a dark cloak, her drunken pursuer stumbling over tree roots .
The modest tent he had coaxed out of Lord Lefford’s stores had been erected in the center of the four fires . A girl was with them; slim, dark-haired, no more than eighteen by the look of her . Tyrion had sent him a groom and a body servant to see to his needs .
The life of a soldier was not without certain compensations . Wherever you have a camp, you are certain to have camp followers . Bronn had done well enough; she was slim, with small firm breasts and a smile .
Tyrion put down the candle, took her hand in his, and pulled her gently to him . There was nothing underneath but Shae. “If he don’t put down that candle, m’lord will burn his fingers.” Tyrion suspected her delight was feigned, but she did it so well that it did not matter . It had been nigh on a year since he’d lain with a woman, since before he had set out for Winterfell in company with his
“What’s that, m’lord?” Shae murmured against him . Tyrion slid out from beneath her, gently, so as not to disturb her sleep . “Where did you find her?” Tyrion asked him as he pissed .
“I must be mad.” Bronn sheathed his sword. “Beyond a doubt.” “M’lord is back now.” He slid in beside her. “Yes he is,” she whispered, stroking him . “You need not fear his like, m'lord,” the girl said, and she named him as a minor retainer of an insignificant lordling .
He heard shouts, the clatter of spears, whicker of horses, though nothing yet spoke to him of fighting . “My lord father’s trumpets,” he said. “I thought Stark was yet a day’s march away.” Shae shook her head, lost. Her eyes were wide and white . Tyrion lurched to his feet and pushed his way outside, shouting for his squire .
Tyrion owned a fine suit of heavy plate, expertly crafted to fit his misshapen body . He had to make do with oddments assembled from Lord Lefford’s wagons . His breastplate was meant for a bigger man; for his oversize head, they found a huge bucket-shaped greathelm topped with a foot-long triangular spike .
Tyrion asked if this was the last sunrise he would ever see . A warhorn sounded in the far distance, a deep mournful note that chilled the soul . The clansmen climbed onto their scrawny mountain horses .
Tyrion saw his banner unfurl as his standard-bearer shook it out . Behind him flew Ser Flement’s purple unicorn, the brindled boar of Crakehall, the bantam rooster of Swyft, and more . Tywin Lannister’s battle armor put his son Jaime’s gilded suit to shame .
Tyrion wondered what the boy had been thinking . Did he think to take them unawares while they slept? What else might be said of him, Tywin Lannister was no man’s fool .
Tyrion led his men toward the riverbank. “Look,” he shouted, pointing with his axe. “The river.” A blanket of pale mist still clung to the surface of the water, the murky green current swirling past underneath. “That river is ours. Whatever happens, keep close to the water. Let no enemy come between us and our river. If they dirty our waters, hack off their cocks and feed them to the fishes.” Other Stone Crows picked up the cry,
Bronn drew his longsword, and suddenly the enemy was there before them, boiling over the tops of the hills, advancing with measured tread behind a wall of shields and pikes . Gods be damned, look at them all, Tyrion thought, though he knew his father had more men on the field . The white of House Stark was seen everywhere, the grey direwolves seeming to run and leap as the banners swirled .
The northerners broke into a run, shouting as they came, but the Lannister arrows fell on them like hail . By then a second flight was in the air, and the archers were fitting a third arrow to their bowstrings . Ser Gregor waved his huge sword and bellowed a command .
Gregor Clegane was the first to reach them, leading a wedge of armored veterans . Half the horses shied at the last second, breaking their charge before the row of spears . Tyrion saw a dozen men go down . The Mountain’s stallion reared, lashing out with iron-shod hooves as a barbed spearhead raked across his neck .
Tyrion saw Shagga catch a spearman full in the chest as the fool came on at a run, saw his axe shear through mail and leather and muscle and lungs . The man was dead on his feet, the axehead lodged in his breast . Tyrion was surrounded by three foes, but he lopped the head off the first spear that came at him, and raked his blade across a second man’s face on his backslash .
A Burned Man rode past, slumped against his horse . Tyrion saw one of the northerners run up and make a grab for his reins . “Dwarf,” he screamed. “Die.” He turned in a circle as Tyrion rode around him, hacking at his head and shoulders .
Tyrion's right elbow exploded with pain as the spikes punched through the thin metal around the joint . He clawed for his sword, but the morningstar was circling again, coming at his face . The knight who had felled him drew up above him, fumbling for a weapon .
Tyrion lurched to his feet, driving his head into the horse’s belly . It tried to twist away from the agony, a shower of blood and viscera poured down over Tyrion’s face . He wriggled free, his throat so tight he could scarce talk . “... yield ...” he managed to croak faintly .
Tyrion groped at the top of the greathelm . The spike snapped off clean . “I haven’t lost it. Do you see my horse?” Tyrion replied .
Tyrion and Bronn went looking for his men. Many he found among the dead . Tyrion thought they were both dead, but as he dismounted, Shagga opened his eyes and said, “They have killed Conn son of Coratt.” Handsome Conn had no mark but for the red stain over his breast .
Robb Stark is a green boy, more like to be brave than wise . "A feigned rout is less convincing," his father said . “A pity my savages ruined your dance,” Lord Tywin admitted .
Tywin Lannister rose to his feet as Ser Addam Marbrand leapt down off his courser . The horse was lathered and bleeding from the mouth . Lord Cerwyn, Ser Wylis Manderly, Harrion Karstark, four Freys .
Hallis Mollen had asked for the honor of protecting her in the battle to come . She had thirty men around her, charged to keep her unharmed and see her safely home to Winterfell if the fighting went against them . When it came, she knew it would mean death. Hal’s death perhaps ... or hers, or Robb’s .
Ned had lingered scarcely a fortnight with his new bride before he too had ridden off to war with promises on his lips . She had brought him forth in blood and pain, not knowing whether Ned would ever see him . But now it was for Robb that she waited ... for Jaime Lannister, the gilded knight . Let him grow as tall as his father, and hold his own son in his arms .
Robb had given the Blackfish three hundred picked men, and sent them ahead to screen his march . "Jaime does not know," Ser Brynden said when he rode back . The Kingslayer has us three to one," her son asked .
Olyvar Frey held his horse for him, Lord Walder’s son, two years older than Robb . When he lowered it over the face she loved so well, a tall young knight sat on his grey stallion where her son had been . “I must ride down the line, Mother,” he told her .
A bird called faintly in the distance, a sharp trill that felt like an icy hand on Catelyn’s neck . She knew their call well enough, from her years at Winterfell. Snow shrikes . Sometimes you saw them in the deep of winter, when the godswood was white and still . They are coming, my lady,” Hal Mollen whispered .
Here was a hush in the night, moonlight and shadows, a thick carpet of dead leaves underfoot, densely wooded ridges sloping gently down to the streambed . Here was her son on his stallion, glancing back at her one last time and lifting his sword in salute . The sound seemed to go right through Catelyn Stark, and she found herself shivering .
Catelyn sat on her horse, unmoving, with Hal Mollen and her guard around her . They were in a long line, an endless line, and suddenly it was as if she and her protectors were alone in the wood . But when she looked across the valley to the far ridge, she saw the Greatjon’s riders emerge from the darkness beneath the trees .
She heard hoofbeats, iron boots splashing in shallow water, the woody sound of swords on oaken shields and the scrape of steel against steel . Men shouted curses and begged for mercy, and got it (or not) and lived (or died) The ridges seemed to play queer tricks with sound . Little by little, the sounds dwindled and died, until at last there was only the wolf .
Ser Jaime Lannister said: “I have mislaid them as well, I fear.” “A pity,” Catelyn said coldly. “Take him away and put him in irons.” “That he will,” the Greatjon agreed . “Why should Lord Karstark want him dead?” Robb asked .
“No one can fault Lannister on his courage,” Glover said . “When he saw that he was lost, he rallied his retainers and fought his way up the valley, hoping to reach Lord Robb and cut him down. And almost did.” “He mislaid his sword in Eddard Karstark’s neck, after he took Torrhen’s hand off and split Daryn Hornwood’s skull open,” Robb said. “Your men did what they were s
Dany watched the flies. They were as large as bees, gross, purplish, glistening . They lived in marshes and stagnant pools, sucked blood from man and horse alike, and laid their eggs in the dead and dying . Drogo hated them. He would hold the fly inside his huge fist long enough to hear its frantic buzzing, and the horse gave an angry flick of its tail to brush it away.
Khal Drogo swayed in the saddle, tilted slowly, and fell heavily from his horse . The flies scattered for a heartbeat, and then circled back to settle on him where he lay . Dany gasped, “Drogo,” Clumsily she reached over and touched his arm . His breath rattled harshly in his throat, and he looked at her .
Haggo shouted as they galloped up. “Blood of my blood,” he said as he dropped to his knees . “He fell from his horse,” Haggo said, staring down. “You must not say that,” Dany told him. “This is no camping ground.” “It is not for a woman to bid us halt,” said Qotho, “not even a khaleesi.”
Khal Drogo's tent was stifling under the sandsilk as slaves erected the tent beneath a jagged outcrop of black rock . Thick patterned carpets had been laid down over the ground, and pillows scattered in the corners . Eroeh, the timid girl Dany had rescued outside the mud walls of the Lamb Men, set up a brazier.
Irri, have the tub brought at once. Doreah, Eroeh, find water, cool water, he’s so hot.” He was a fire in human skin. The slaves set up the heavy copper tub in the corner of the tent.
Ser Jorah Mormont ducked through the door flap and waited a moment for his eyes to adjust to the dimness . He wore loose trousers of mottled sandsilk and open-toed riding sandals that laced up to his knee . "Talk goes from mouth to ear, all over the khalasar," Dany pleaded .
Khal Drogo thrashed, fighting some unseen enemy . “Your khal is good as dead, Princess.” “No, he can’t die, it was only a cut,” Dany cried plaintively. “Why should they kill a little baby?” Ser Jorah said .
Drogo had been more than her sun-and-stars; he had been the shield that kept her safe . "I will not leave him," she said stubbornly, miserably . A stirring at the tent flap made Dany turn her head .
Haggo laid his fist across Mirri’s cheek with a meaty smack that drove her to the ground . “This is your work, maegi,” Qotho said. “Kicks are too merciful for a maegi.” Take her outside . Weasels will tear out her entrails and carrion crows feast upon her eyes .
The Dothraki say a man and his bloodriders share one life, and Qotho sees it ending . “No one has died,” Dany said. “Ser Jorah, I may have need of your blade. Best go don your armor.” She was more frightened than she dared admit .
Mirri Maz Duur sat back on her heels and studied Daenerys through eyes as black as night . “I learned the way in Asshai, and paid dear for the lesson. My teacher was a bloodmage from the Shadow Lands.” “Is there no other way?” “No other.” “You’ll have gold, horses, whatever you like.” “This is bloodmagic, lady,” Dany blurted.
Khal Drogo led the great red stallion into the tent . When the animal caught the scent of death, he screamed and reared, rolling his eyes . He was a youth of sixteen years, whip-thin, fearless, quick to laugh .
Mirri Maz Duur chanted words in a tongue that Dany did not know . It looked old; hammered red bronze, leaf-shaped, its blade covered with ancient glyphs . The maegi drew it across the stallion’s throat, under the noble head, and the horse screamed and shuddered .
Dany bowed her head, helpless. “No one will enter this tent.” She bent over the tub, over Drogo in his bath of blood, and kissed him lightly on the brow. “Bring him back to me,” she whispered to Mirri Maz Duur before she fled . A crowd had gathered to stare at Ser Jorah Mormont, wearing mail and leather now, sweat beading on his broad, balding forehead .
Dany saw naked fear on the faces of the Dothraki . “This must not be,” Qotho thundered . He drew his arakh and made for the tent .
Ser Jorah Mormont called. “Try me.” His longsword slid from its scabbard . Qotho whirled, cursing. The arakh moved so fast that Quaro’s blood flew from it in a fine spray . The knight was clad in chainmail, with gauntlets and greaves of lobstered steel .
Ser Jorah brought his longsword down with all the strength left him . Qotho’s forearm dangled loose, flopping on a thin cord of skin and sinew . The knight’s next cut was at the Dothraki’s ear, so savage that his face seemed almost to explode . A yank and the bloodrider stumbled backward, losing his feet and his sword .
Daenerys saw the crowd dispersing, the Dothraki stealing silently back to their tents and sleeping mats . She tried to rise, and agony seized her and squeezed her like a giant’s fist . It was all she could do to gasp .
ARYA The scent of hot bread drifting from the shops along the Street of Flour was sweeter than any perfume Arya had ever smelled . She took a deep breath and stepped closer to the pigeon . It was a plump one, speckled brown, busily pecking at a crust that had fallen between two cobblestones .
Arya tied the pigeon to her belt and started down the street . A man was pushing a load of tarts by on a two-wheeled cart . The smells sang of blueberries and lemons and apricots .
Arya had been staying as far from the castle as she could get . The sight of the gold cloaks tied her stomach in knots . Some said her father had murdered King Robert and been slain by Lord Renly . Others insisted that Renly had killed the king in a drunken quarrel between brothers .
The bells in the seven towers of the Great Sept of Baelor had tolled for a day and a night, the thunder of their grief rolling across the city in a bronze tide . Arya had been sleeping in Flea Bottom, on rooftops and in stables, wherever she could find a place to lie down . The Dragon Gate, the Lion Gate, and the Old Gate were closed and barred .
Flea Bottom had pot-shops along alleys where stew had been simmering for years . Arya would have given anything for milk and a lemon cake, but the brown wasn’t so bad . Some of them stared at her boots or her cloak, and she knew what they were thinking .
Arya had taken to walking around with her cloak draped over her right arm . The wooden sword she carried in her left hand, out where everybody could see it . There were men in the pot-shops who wouldn’t have been scared off if she’d had a battle-axe .
Arya stared at the little ones with resentment, remembering the times she played at hoops with Bran and Jon and their baby brother Rickon . She wondered how big Rickon had grown, and whether Bran was sad . The little ones only looked at her with quick, wary eyes and ran away if she came too close . A barefoot girl twice her age had knocked her down and tried to pull the boots off her feet .
Arya spied another pair of gold cloaks, walking side by side through the fish market, but they never so much as looked at her . Out on the Blackwater, three of the king’s war galleys moved in formation, gold-painted hulls splitting the water as their oars rose and fell . The sight of Winterfell's colors brought tears to her eyes . She grabbed a passing longshoreman by the sleeve .
Flea Bottom had a stink of pigsties and stables mixed in with the sour smell of winesinks and cheap whorehouses . It was not until she caught a whiff of bubbling brown coming through a pot-shop door that she realized her pigeon was gone . Arya looked up, listening, wondering what the ringing meant this time .
“Is it the boy king that’s died now?” she shouted down, leaning out over the street . A naked man slid his arms around her from behind, biting her neck and rubbing the heavy white breasts that hung loose beneath her shift . “I’ll ring your bells,” the fat man repeated .
A passing wagon had left a deep rut in the street . Arya tripped and fell, scraping her knee open on a stone . The thumb of her left hand was covered with blood . When she sucked on it, she saw that half the thumbnail was gone .
Arya squirmed through the press, ducking between the legs of horses and clutching tight to her sword stick . She spotted a wood wagon and thought to climb up on the back where she might be able to see . The teamster cursed at them and drove them off with a crack of his whip .
Lord Eddard stood on the High Septon’s pulpit outside the doors of the sept, supported between two of the gold cloaks . He was dressed in a rich grey velvet doublet with a white wolf sewn on the front in beads, but he was thinner than Arya had ever seen him, his long face drawn with pain . She saw Varys the eunuch gliding among the lords in soft slippers and a patterned damas
A long line of gold-cloaked spearmen held back the crowd, commanded by a stout man in elaborate armor, all black lacquer and gold filigree . His cloak had the metallic shimmer of true cloth-of-gold . When the bell ceased to toll, a quiet slowly settled across the great plaza, and her father lifted his head and began to speak .
A stone came sailing out of the crowd as she saw her father hit . Blood ran down his face from a deep gash across his forehead . Two of the Kingsguard stepped in front of Joffrey and the queen, protecting them with their shields .
Arya felt the statue of Baelor rock as they surged against it . The High Septon clutched at the king’s cape, and Varys came rushing over waving his arms, and even the queen was saying something to him, but Joffrey shook his head . Ser Ilyn Payne climbed the steps of the pulpit, drawing Needle .
Ser Ilyn drew a two-handed greatsword from the scabbard on his back . As he lifted the blade above his head, sunlight seemed to ripple and dance down the dark metal, glinting off an edge sharper than any razor . Arya was wrenched off her feet, so hard that Needle went flying from her hand . The old man shook her so hard her teeth rattled .
BRAN The oldest were men grown, seventeen and eighteen years from the day of their naming. One was past twenty. Most were younger, sixteen or less. The yard was alive to the clack of wood on wood, punctuated all too often by thwacks and yowls of pain when a blow struck leather or flesh.
"If I still had my legs, I could beat them all," Bran said . "You fight like a goose. He pecks you and you peck him harder. Parry! Block the blow. Goose fighting will not suffice." "There was a knight once who couldn’t see," Bran says .
“I dreamed about the crow again last night. The one with three eyes. He flew into my bedchamber and told me to come with him, so I did.” The maester had only been half listening, Bran could tell. He lifted his eye from the tube, blinking . “I didn’t, though.” “Good. Hodor is a man, not a mule to be beaten.”
Lord Eddard will sit below in stone beside his father and his father’s father and all the Starks back to the old Kings in the North ... but that will not be for many years, gods be good. Your father is a prisoner of the queen in King’s Landing. You will not find him in the crypts.” “He was there last night. I talked to him.” “Stubborn boy,” the maester sighed .
Summer stalked out in the echoing gloom, then stopped, lifted his head, and sniffed the chill dead air . “Winter’s got no king. If you’d seen it,” Osha whispered. “They were the Kings of Winter.” Somehow it felt wrong to talk too loudly in this place .
His son was Rickard Stark, not my father’s father but another Rickard, he took the Neck away from the Marsh King and married his daughter . Theon Stark’s the real thin one with the long hair and the skinny beard . He tried to sail west across the Sunset Sea and was never seen again . There’s Rodrik Stark who won Bear Island in a wrestling match .
“Is this where you saw your father in your dream, Bran?” Maester Luwin said . “As you see, he’s not here. Nor will he be, for many a year. Dreams are only dreams, child.” He shivered .
Osha propped Bran up against Lord Rickard’s stone wolf as she hurried to assist the maester . Shaggydog broke off and bounded to Rickon’s side . “You leave him. You leave him be. He’s coming home now,” Bran said .
“I’m not afraid. I have to wait for Father.” “You can wait together,” Bran said . “I know you mean well, but Shaggydog is too wild to run loose. Give him the freedom of the castle and it’s only a question of time before he kills someone. The truth is hard, but the wolf has to be chained, or killed, Bran thought, but what he said was, “He was not made for chains. We will wait in your tower, all of us
Maester Luwin’s turret was so cluttered that it seemed to Bran a wonder that he ever found anything . Tottering piles of books covered tables and chairs, rows of stoppered jars lined the shelves, candle stubs and puddles of dried wax dotted the furniture . Their strident quorks drifted down from above as Osha washed and bandaged the maester’s wounds .
A spell would heal my arm less painfully, and they could talk to Shaggy dog and tell him not to bite.” He stood abruptly, crossed the room, and returned with a green jar in his good hand . Osha placed soft pads over the bites on the maester’s forearm and bound them tight with long strips of linen .
Maester Luwin tugged at his chain collar where it chafed against his neck . "They were people of the Dawn Age, the very first, before kings and kingdoms," he said . Only the children of the forest dwelt in the lands we now call the Seven Kingdoms .
The First Men were given the coastlands, the high plains and bright meadows, the mountains and bogs, but the deep woods were to remain forever the children’s . In time, the First Men even put aside the gods they had brought with them, and took up the worship of the secret gods of the wood.
The Andals were the first, a race of tall, fair-haired warriors who came with steel and fire and the seven-pointed star of the new gods painted on their chests . Only here, where the King in the North threw back every army that tried to cross the Neck, did the rule of the First Men endure .
Summer padded across the tower floor to Shaggydog, and began to lick at a mat of bloody fur on the back of his brother’s neck . A raven landed on the grey stone sill, opened its beak, and gave a harsh, raucous rattle of distress . He rose, slow as a sleepwalker, and moved to the window .
Maester Luwin looked up at the sons numbly, a small grey man with blood on the sleeve of his grey wool robe and tears in his bright grey eyes . She drew curtains around her bed, slept, woke weeping, and slept again . When she could not sleep she lay under her blankets shivering with grief .
Sansa went so far as to throw open the shutters ... but then her courage left her, and she ran back to her bed, sobbing . The serving girls tried to talk to her when they brought her meals, but she never answered them . When Grand Maester Pycelle came with a box of flasks and bottles, to ask if she was ill . She drank honeywater and herbs and told her to drink a swallow every night .
Sansa was in bed, curled up tight, curtains drawn, and couldn't have said if it was noon or midnight . She threw up a hand against the sudden light and saw them standing over her . Sandor Clegane stood at his shoulder in a plain brown doublet and green mantle .
“I don’t want to marry you,” Sansa wailed . “You chopped off my father’s head!” “He was a traitor. I never promised to spare him, only that I’d be merciful, and I was. If he hadn’t been your father, I would have had him torn or flayed,” she said .
Ser Meryn and Ser Arys followed him out, but Sandor Clegane lingered long enough to yank her roughly to her feet . "He wants you to smile and smell sweet and be his lady love," the Hound rasped . She sank back onto the rushes, staring at the wall until two of her bedmaids crept timidly into the chamber .
Ser Meryn Trant wore white armor; a shirt of enameled scales chased with gold . He had a tall helm with a golden sunburst crest, greaves and gorget and gauntlet and boots of gleaming plate . His visor had been removed from his helm, to better show his dour face .
A thief was brought before him and he had Ser Ilyn chop his hand off . A woman fell to her knees to plead for the head of a man executed as a traitor . Lord Petyr sat at the end of the council table wearing a black velvet doublet and a shiny cloth-of-gold cape, nodding with approval every time he pronounced a sentence .
The singer wept and swore he would never sing that song again, but the king insisted . When the song was done, Joffrey announced that he’d decided to be merciful . Sansa saw with relief, but her ordeal was not done .
“I’ll get you with child as soon as you’re able,” Sansa said as he escorted her across the practice yard . “If the first one is stupid, I’ll chop off your head and find a smarter wife,” Joffrey said .
Sansa saw the Great Sept of Baelor on Visenya’s hill, where her father had died . At the other end of the Street of the Sisters stood the fire-blackened ruins of the Dragonpit . The salt sea was at her back, and to the south was the fish market and the docks and the swirling torrent of the Blackwater Rush .
Sandor Clegane took the head by the hair and turned it back around . It did not really look like Lord Eddard, she thought; it did not even look real . The other heads had been dead and mounted much longer than her father .
"Your brother defeated my uncle Jaime. My mother says it was treachery and deceit. She wept when she heard. We need to stay in King’s Landing in case my other uncles attack, but I don’t care. You must never mock me like that. A true wife does not mock her lord. Ser Meryn, teach her. You shouldn’t be crying all the time," she told her.
Sandor Clegane knelt before her, between her and Joffrey . She felt the dark behind her, and the red door seemed farther away than ever . “You don’t want to wake the dragon, do you?” She saw sunlight on the Dothraki sea .
“... don’t want to wake the dragon, do you?” Viserys stood before her, screaming . “The dragon does not beg, slut. You do not command the dragon. I am the dragon and I will be crowned!” he shrieked . She could feel the heat inside her, a terrible burning in her womb .
Ghosts lined the hallway, dressed in the faded raiment of kings . They had hair of silver and hair of platinum white, and their eyes were opal and amethyst, tourmaline and jade . “Faster!” the ghosts cried as one, and she screamed and threw herself forward. “... wake the dragon ...” The door loomed before her, so close, the cold receding behind .
The tent was drenched in shadow, still and close, and Dany followed them with her eyes through the smoke hole above . “Help me,” she whispered, struggling to rise, and she couldn't think what she wanted . It was as if her body had been torn to pieces and remade from the scraps .
Dany drank, and lay back, listening to the soft sound of her own breathing . She could feel the heaviness in her limbs, as sleep crept in to fill her up once more . “Bring me ... I want to hold ... Yes?” the maegi asked .
Dany woke the third time, a shaft of golden sunlight was pouring through the smoke hole of the tent, and her arms were wrapped around a dragon’s egg . It was the pale one, its scales the color of butter cream, veined with whorls of gold and bronze, and Dany could feel the heat of it . She felt something twist and stretch in response, but it did not frighten her .
Ser Jorah and Mirri Maz Duur entered a few moments later, and found Dany standing over the other dragon’s eggs, the two still in their chest . It seemed to her that they felt as hot as the one she had slept with, which was passing strange . She took his hand and placed it on the black egg with the scarlet swirls .
Dany saw how the flesh hung loose on him, and the way he limped when he moved . He turned his face away. His eyes were haunted. “They say the child was ...” She waited, but Ser Jorah could not say it . “Monstrous,” Mirri Maz Duur finished for him .
Ser Jorah had killed her son, Dany knew . He knew it too; the grey face, the hollow eyes, the limp . "You warned me that only death could pay for life," she told him .
A small crowd of children had gathered to watch her . She saw the ashes of a fire, a few score horses milling listlessly and searching for a bite of grass . A count might show a hundred people, no more. Where the other forty thousand had made their camp, only the wind and dust lived now .
Mago seized her, who is Khal Jhaqo’s bloodrider now,” said Aggo . "I swear it by the Mother of Mountains and the Womb of the World," Dany said . He was lying on the bare red earth staring up at the sun .
Dany kissed her sun-and-stars gently on the brow, and stood to face Mirri Maz Duur . “Your spells are costly, maegi.” “He lives,” said Drogo. “You asked for life. You paid for life.” “This is not life, for one who was as was. His life was laughter, and meat roasting over a firepit, and a horse between his legs.”
“You cheated me. You murdered my child within me.” “I spoke for you,” Dany said . “The stallion who mounts the world will burn no cities now. His khalasar shall trample no nations into dust.” “You saved me?” The Lhazareen woman spat . I saw my god’s house burn, where I had healed good men beyond counting .
Dany commanded Khal Drogo to fill a tub, and this time there was no blood in the water . She bathed him herself, washing the dirt and the dust from his arms and chest, cleaning his face with a soft cloth and combing the knots and tangles from it till it shone again as she remembered . It was well past dark before she was done, and Dany was exhausted .
Dany raked him with her nails and covered him with kisses . She whispered and prayed and told him stories . But when the dawn broke over an empty horizon, Dany knew that he was truly lost .
Tyrion had set a grueling pace, and it had taken its toll . Every morning they left a few more by the roadside, men who went to sleep never to wake . The rush south, the endless forced marches, the bodies left beside the road ... all for naught .
Riverrun is situated at the end of the point of land where the Tumblestone flows into the Red Fork of the Trident . The Tullys open their sluice gates upstream to create a wide moat on the third side, turning Riverrun into an island . "Ser Kevan speaks truly, my lords," the courier said .
Lord Tywin Lannister was oft quiet in council, preferring to listen before he spoke . But this silence was uncharacteristic even for him, and his wine was untouched . The Blackfish led the van, cutting down our sentries and clearing away the palisades for the main assault .
Lord Tywin was a fool, Tyrion thought, swirling his cup and staring down into the winy depths . He wondered if Lord Brax had felt especially gallant as the weight of his steel pulled him under the black water . “The camp between the rivers was overrun as well,” the messenger was saying .
Ser Addam Marbrand said, “I am sure we are all grateful to you forpointing out the obvious, Ser Harys.” “What can we do? Jaime’s host is all slaughtered or taken or put to flight, and the Starks and the Tullys sit squarely across our line of supply.” “Peace?” Tyrion swirled his wine thoughtfully, took a deep draft, and hurled his empty cup to the floor, where it shattered into a thousand pieces
Lord Tywin Lannister rose to his feet, in a voice that cut through the babble like a sword through suet . “I suppose we ought to be grateful that he has not yet married a whore.” Tyrion sipped at his wine .
Ser Kevan looked poleaxed. “A new—who? What have they done to Joffrey?” The faintest flicker of distaste played across Lord Tywin’s thin lips . “My grandson still sits the Iron Throne, but the eunuch has heard whispers from the south. The bride’s father and brothers have bent the knee and sworn him their swords.” “Those are grave tidings.” Lord Tyrion said .
Ser Kevan frowned over the map, forehead creasing . "Jaime has left us in a bad way. Our enemies hold the Twins and Moat Cailin." Robb Stark sits to the west, so we cannot retreat to Lannisport and the Rock .
Lord Tywin asked Ser Addam and his freeriders to screen our movements . "They will burn, my lord," Ser Kevan said, rising and making for the door . “Your savages might relish a bit of rapine," Tyrion said .
Tyrion Lannister was a butcher, and they grant him Harrenhal . He lent honor to any man he served, but the name of Barristan the Bold still has meaning in the realm .
Lord Tywin sat alone in the common room for a long while after his father was gone . The shards of the broken cup crunched beneath his father’s heels as he crossed the room . He climbed the steps to his cozy garret beneath the bell tower .
JON The mare whickered softly as Jon Snow tightened the cinch . He strapped his roll to the saddle, his scarred fingers stiff and clumsy . “Jon, please. You must not do this.” He mounted, the reins in his hand, and wheeled the horse around .
The Old Bear was accustomed to rise at first light, so Jon had until dawn to put as many leagues as he could between him and the Wall . The fat boy was dutiful and easily frightened, but he loved Jon like a brother . Sam Tarly was so heavy and so ungainly, it would be just like him to break a wrist or twist his ankle getting out of the way .
Jon felt bad when he thought of the old man . He knew his desertion would be salt in the still-raw wound of his son’s disgrace . The southron had it easier. They had their septons to talk to, someone to tell them the gods’ will and help sort out right from wrong .
He was clad in black from head to heel; high leather riding boots, roughspun breeches and tunic, sleeveless leather jerkin, and heavy wool cloak . A stranger wearing black was viewed with cold suspicion in every village and holdfast north of the Neck . He would bar the gates and send Jon away, as he should .
Jon Snow was who he was; Jon Snow, bastard and oathbreaker, motherless, friendless, and damned . For the rest of his life, he would be condemned to be an outsider, the silent man standing in the shadows who dares not speak his true name . But it made no matter, so long as he lived long enough to take his place by his brother’s side and help avenge his father .
Mole’s Town was bigger than it seemed, but three quarters of it was under the ground, in deep warm cellars connected by a maze of tunnels . Even the whorehouse was down there, nothing on the surface but a wooden shack no bigger than a privy, with a red lantern hung over the door . He wondered whether any of his brothers in black were down there tonight, mining .
Jon squatted and brought his hands together, cupping the runoff between his fingers . He drank, and splashed some on his face, until his cheeks tingled . The horse was well lathered, so Jon took the lead and walked her for a while .
Jon sat under the trees and ate his biscuit and cheese while his mare grazed along the kingsroad . It had gone a little soft, but the flesh was still tart and juicy . Could he outrun them? No, they’d hear him for a certainty, and if they were from Castle Black .
Jon’s mare snorted. “Keep quiet, all of you,” Grenn insisted. “Quiet!” They all fell silent, listening . “I don’t know,” Halder admitted. “A sound, I thought it might have been a horse but...” “There’s nothing here.” “There!” “Traitor,” Jon told the direwolf .
“You don’t wish to hurt you, but I will if I have to.” “One against seven?” Jon demanded . “They’ll cut off your head if they catch you, you know,” Grenn said .
Jon cursed them all to their faces, brandishing his sword . “I mean it, Pyp.” They weren’t even wearing armor, he could cut them to pieces if he had to. “For this night ...,” Jon kicked his mare, spinning her in a circle .
Jon told himself, but they could not make him stay . He would bide his time, make them think he was content to stay here . Next time he would avoid the kingsroad, he could follow the Wall east, perhaps all the way to the sea, a longer route but a safer one .
Hobb had given him a lemon, still cold from the Wall . Mormont drank lemon in his beer every day, and claimed that was why he still had his own teeth . “Doubtless you loved your father,” Mormont said when Jon brought him his horn .
Mormont peeled the shell off a boiled egg . He ate the egg in two bites and flicked a bit of shell out from between his teeth .
"You are not the only one touched by this war. Like as not, my sister is marching in your brother’s host, her and those daughters of hers, dressed in men’s mail . Maege is a hoary old snark, stubborn, short-tempered, and willful, but that does not mean my love for her is any less than the love you bear your half sisters" Lord Commander Mormont took his last egg and squeezed it in his fist until the shell crunched 
Lord Mormont stabbed a chunk of ham with the point of his dagger . “I think you were meant to be here, and I want you and that wolf of yours with us when we go beyond the Wall.” His words sent a chill of excitement down Jon’s back.
Jon Snow pointed his dagger at Jon’s chest . "I will not sit here meekly and wait for the snows and the ice winds. We must know what is happening. This time the Night’s Watch will ride in force, against the King-beyond-the-Wall, the Others," he said .
The great iron portcullis rose slowly as they approached, and Catelyn saw that the lower half of it was red with rust . The bottom foot dripped brown mud on them as they passed underneath, the barbed spikes mere inches above their heads .
Ser Edmure Tully was a stocky young man with a shaggy head of auburn hair and a fiery beard . His breastplate was scratched and dented from battle, his blue-and-red cloak stained by blood and smoke . It had been Lord Tytos who led the sortie that plucked her brother from the Lannister camp .
Edmure escorted her up the water stair and across the lower bailey . Petyr Baelish and Brandon Stark had once crossed swords for her favor . "He will not be with us long, the maesters say. The pain is constant, and grievous," she said .
Hoster Tully had always been a big man; tall and broad in his youth, portly as he grew older . Now he seemed shrunken, the muscle and meat melted off his bones . The last time Catelyn had seen him, his hair and beard had been brown .
A spasm of pain took him, and his fingers clutched hers hard . “The crabs are in my belly ... pinching, always pinching. Day and night. They have fierce claws, the crabs. I was afraid I would go, before I could see you too.” “Your boy,” he whispered. “He did, and does. And we’ve brought you Jaime Lannister, in irons.” Lord Hoster smiled .
“I’d hoped ... I would have liked to see her, before...” “She’s with her son, in the Eyrie” Lord Hoster gave a weary nod . “Robb will be waiting. Will you see him? And Brynden?” “Your son,” he whispered. “Yes. Cat’s child ... he had my eyes, I remember. When he was born. Bring him ... yes.” “And your brother?” His father glanced out over
"He was ever a warrior," her father husked. "That he could do. Knight of the Gate, yes." He leaned back and closed his eyes, inutterably weary. "Send him. Later. I’ll sleep now. Too sick to fight. Send him up later, the Blackfish ..." Ser Brynden Tully stood on the water stairs with wet boots .
The gods must have their due ... even cruel gods who would take Ned from her, and her lord father as well . She found Robb beneath the green canopy of leaves, surrounded by tall redwoods and great old elms . He is his father’s son as much as mine, I must remember .
Lysa and Petyr had traded him between them, serious and giggling by turns . It came back to her so vividly she could almost feel his sweaty fingers on her shoulders and taste the mint on his breath . "He tried to put his tongue in my mouth," Catelyn had confessed to her sister afterward .
Lord Hoster was too weak to attend, asleep on his balcony . Edmure sat in the high seat of the Tullys, with Brynden Blackfish at his side . Karyl Vance came in, a lord now, his father dead beneath the Golden Tooth .
Ser Helman Tallhart and Walder Frey still held the Twins . Many of the lords bannermen wanted to march on Harrenhal at once . Young, hot-tempered Marq Piper urged a strike west at Casterly Rock .
“Renly is crowned,” said Marq Piper . “Highgarden and Storm’s End support his claim,” said Piper. “Lord Stannis has the better claim”
“My lord father would urge caution,” aged Ser Stevron said . “When they are done fighting, we can bend our knees to the victor, or oppose him, as we choose. With Renly arming, likely Lord Tywin would welcome a truce ... and the safe return of his son,” declared Lady Mormont .
"You are the gentle sex," said Lord Karstark, with the lines of grief fresh on his face . "A man has a need for vengeance," Catelyn replied .
I want your daughters back, and the queen holds them still . I want you to live your life, to kiss a girl and wed a woman and father a son . It is no good hammering your sword into a plowshare if you must forge it again on the morrow .
Catelyn looked at her son, watched him as he listened to the lords debate . He had pledged himself to marry a daughter of Walder Frey, but she saw his true bride plain before her now: the sword he had laid on the table . “MY LORDS!” he shouted, his voice booming off the rafters .
Aegon the Dragon had come to make the Seven Kingdoms one . The land was red and dead and parched, and good wood was hard to come by . They returned with gnarled cottonwoods, purple brush, sheaves of brown grass . Aggo fed him a withered apple and dropped him in an instant with an axe blow .
Dany took his whip to her, and the godswife kept silent . They laid the wood east to west, from sunrise to sunset . Aggo would have added the weapons Drogo's bloodriders had given him .
"My sword that was his is yours, Daenerys. And my heart as well, that never belonged to your brother. I am only a knight, and I have nothing to offer you but exile, but I beg you, hear me. Let Khal Drogo go. You shall not be alone. I promise you, no man shall take you to Vaes Dothrak unless you wish to go. We will see all the wonders yet unseen, and drink what wines the gods see
“You will be my khalasar,” she told them. “I see the faces of slaves. I free you. Take off your collars. Go if you wish, no one shall harm you.” Aggo accepted the bow with lowered eyes . “You shall have the great arakh that was my bride gift,” Dany said .
“You are khaleesi,” Rakharo said, taking the arakh . “I shall ride at your side to Vaes Dothrak and keep you safe from harm until you take your place with the crones of the dosh khales. No more can I promise.” She nodded, as calmly as if she had not heard his answer .
Irri and Jhiqui fanned her dry, while Doreah brushed her hair until it fell like a river of liquid silver down her back . They scented her with spiceflower and cinnamon; a touch on each wrist, behind her ears, on the tips of her milk-heavy breasts . She washed his body clean and brushed and oiled his hair, running her fingers through it for the last time, feeling the weight of it .
Dany dressed him in horsehair leggings and high boots, buckling a belt heavy with gold and silver medallions about his waist . Over his scarred chest she slipped a painted vest, old and faded, the one Drogo had loved best . The Dothraki watched in silence as Jhogo and Aggo bore him from the tent .
“You are mad,” the godswife said hoarsely. “Is it so far from madness to wisdom?” Dany asked. “To the ... my queen, no, hear me ...” “Do as I say.” Still he hesitated, until her anger flared . “You swore to obey me, whatever might come. Rakharo, help him,” Dany said .
Dany took the torch from Aggo’s hand and thrust it between the logs . Tiny flames went darting up the wood like swift red mice . A rising heat puffed at her face, soft and sudden as a lover’s breath . Dany stepped backward. The wood crackled, louder and louder .
Huge orange gouts of fire unfurled their banners in that hellish wind . The heat beat at the air with great red wings, driving the Dothraki back, driving off even Mormont, but Dany stood her ground . She was the blood of the dragon, and the fire was in her .
She saw crimson firelions and great yellow serpents and unicorns made of pale blue flame . She saw fish and foxes and monsters, wolves and bright birds and flowering trees, each more beautiful than the last .
Ser Jorah Mormont found her amidst the ashes, surrounded by blackened logs and bits of glowing ember and the burnt bones of man and woman and stallion . She was naked, covered with soot, her clothes turned to ash, her beautiful hair all crisped away ... yet she was unhurt .
APPENDIX HOUSE BARATHEON The youngest of the Great Houses, born during the Wars of Conquest . Its founder, Orys Baratheon, was rumored to be Aegon the Dragon’s bastard brother . When he defeated and slew Argilac the Arrogant, he rewarded him with his castle, lands, and daughter .
SER BARRISTAN SELMY, Lord Commander of the Kingsguard, — VARYS, a eunuch, called the Spider, sworn shield to Prince Joffrey . JANOS SLYNT, an exile prince from the Summer Isles, is a commoner, commander of the City Watch of King’s Landing . SER ARON SANTAGAR squires to the king, the queen’s cousins .
Principal houses sworn to Storm’s End are Selmy, Wylde, Trant, Penrose, Errol, Estermont, Tarth, Swann, Dondarrion, Caron . The Starks trace their descent from Brandon the Builder and the ancient Kings of Winter . For thousands of years, they ruled from Winterfell as Kings in the North, until Torrhen Stark, the King Who Knelt, chose to swear fealty to Aegon the Dragon rather than give
BENJEN, his younger brother, a man of the Night’s Watch, his household: — MAESTER LUWIN, counselor, healer, and tutor, — VAYON POOLE, steward of Winterfell . HALLIS MOLLEN, DESMOND, JACKS, PORTHER, QUENT, ALYN, TOMARD, VARLY, HEWARD, CAYN, WYL, guardsmen — SER RO
The Lannisters are the blood of Andal adventurers who carved out a kingdom in the western hills and valleys . Through the female line they boast of descent from Lann the Clever, the legendary trickster of the Age of Heroes . Their sigil is a golden lion upon a crimson field .
SER ADDAM MARBRAND, the Mountain That Rides, SER HARYS SWYFT, father by marriage to Ser Kevan . The Arryns are descended from the Kings of Mountain and Vale, one of the oldest and purest lines of Andal nobility . Their sigil is the moon-and-falcon, white, upon a sky blue field.
his first wife, LADY JEYNE, of House Royce, died in childbed, her daughter stillborn, — his third wife and widow, LADY LYSA . ROBERT ARRYN, a sickly boy of six years, now Lord of the Eyrie and Defender of the Vale —their retainers and household .
Harren's grandfather, King Harwyn Hardhand, had taken the Trident from Arrec the Storm King, whose ancestors had conquered all the way to the Neck three hundred years earlier . Harren the Black was little loved by those he ruled, and many of the river lords deserted him to join Aegon’s host . The Tully sigil is a leaping trout, silver, on a field of rippling blue and red 
HOUSE TYRELL The Tyrells rose to power as stewards to the Kings of the Reach . Through the female line, they claim descent from Garth Greenhand, gardener king of the First Men, who wore a crown of vines and flowers . When King Mern, last of the old line, perished on the Field of Fire . He surrendered Highgarden to Aegon Targaryen, pledging fealty.
SER GARLAN called the Gallant, their second son, — SER LORAS, the Knight of Flowers, their daughter, a maid of fourteen years . his widowed mother, LADY OLENNA of House Redwyne, called the Queen of Thorns, called his sisters: — MINA, wed to Lord Paxter, Lord Seneschal of Highgarden — his bastard sons, GARSE and GARRETT FLOWERS .
HOUSE GREYJOY The Greyjoys of Pyke claim descent from the Grey King of the Age of Heroes . For thousands of years, raiders from the Iron Islands were the terrors of the seas, sailing as far as the Port of Ibben and the Summer Isles . King Urron’s own line was extinguished when the Andals swept over the islands .
The Iron Kings extended their rule far beyond the isles themselves . In later centuries, Qhored’s descendants lost the Arbor, Oldtown, Bear Island, and much of the western shore . When Harren and his sons perished in the fall of Harrenhal, Aegon Targaryen granted the riverlands to House Tully . They chose Lord Vickon Greyjoy of Pyke .
Dorne, the southernmost of the Seven Kingdoms, was never conquered by Aegon the Dragon . It was not permanently joined to the realm until two hundred years later . Peaceable King Daeron II succeeded where the warriors had failed by marrying the Dornish princess Myriah and giving his own sister .
Aegon the Dragon’s ancestors escaped the Doom of Valyria and the chaos and slaughter that followed to settle on Dragonstone, a rocky island in the narrow sea . To preserve the blood royal and keep it pure, House Targaryen has often followed the Valyrian custom of wedding brother to sister .
Aegon III the Dragonbane, Rhaenyra’s son, [The last of the Targaryen dragons died during the reign of Aego III.] 157–161 Baelor I the Beloved, the Blessed, septon and king, [Daeron conquered Dorne, but was unable to hold it, and died young . 209–221 Aerys I second son to Daeron II, 221–233 Maekar
Aerys II was dethroned and killed, along with his heir, the crown prince Rhaegar Targaryen, slain by Robert Baratheon on the Trident . THE LAST TARGARYENS KING AERYS TARgARYEN, the Second of His Name, died in childbed on Dragonstone .
