A CLASH OF KINGS ARYA SANSA TYRION BRAN CATELYN JON THEON DAENERYS JON ARY A YORK OF THEON JON SANSA JON AJAX OF THEORY ANNEXE . THEON A JON SALE OF THE ON DAENRYS YON A TYROON .
The maester had never seen a comet half so bright, nor yet that color, the color of blood and flame and sunsets . He wondered if his gargoyles had ever seen its like . They had been here so much longer than he had, and would still be here long after he was gone .
He was a maester, trained and chained in the great Citadel of Oldtown . What had he come to, when superstition filled his head as if he were an ignorant fieldhand? The comet burned even by day now, while pale grey steam rose from the hot vents of Dragonmont behind the castle .
Pylos had fallen and shattered a hip, and it had never mended properly . In his youth, Cressen had walked briskly, but he was not far from his eightieth name day . He had come to replace him when he died .
Maester Cressen was a polite youth, no more than five-and-twenty, yet solemn as a man of sixty . Dragonstone was grim beyond a doubt, a lonely citadel in the wet waste surrounded by storm and salt . Cressen had never loved Dragonstone, nor ever felt truly at home here .
The fool turned his patched head to watch Pylos climb the steep iron steps to the rookery . Patchface was a sorry thing, but the sea had taken that power from him . He was soft and obese, subject to twitches and trembles, incoherent as often as not .
Maester Cressen told Mother that dragonsbreath is coming to life . Shireen was a summer child, and had never known true cold . “Will it get cold now?” Cressen replied .
“Under the sea, it snows up,” said Shireen . “Will it truly snow?” Cressen said . The bird made an impressive sight, white as snow and larger than any hawk .
Patchface had come to them as a boy . The old king had sent his lordship to seek a bride for Prince Rhaegar . “We have found the most splendid fool,” he wrote .
A hundred oarsmen and sailors went down with Lord Steffon Baratheon and his lady wife, and for days thereafter every tide left a fresh crop of swollen corpses on the strand below Storm’s End . When they found the fool he was naked, his skin white and wrinkled and powdered with wet sand .
“The wretch is mad, and in pain, and no use to anyone, least of all himself,” declared old Ser Harbert . “The kindest thing you could do for that one is fill his cup with the milk of the poppy. A painless sleep, and there’s an end to it. He’d bless you if he had the wit for it.” But Cressen had refused .
Lord Stannis would have woken him, no matter the hour, to give his counsel . He disentangled his fingers from Shireen’s, but he must speak with his lord father. Pylos, give me your arm. There are too many steps in this castle, and it seems to me they add a few every night, just to vex me.
Guardsmen strode the wallwalks, peering between gargoyles on the host camped without . The morning air was hazy with the smoke of cookfires . No craft that had come within sight of Dragonstone this past half year had been allowed to leave again . Halfway up, he regretted his decision .
Lord Stannis had been the most notorious and elusive smuggler in all the Seven Kingdoms . It was said that no one had handled a ship by night half so well as Davos Shorthand . He is strong, able, just past the point of wisdom .
Renly had loved bright colors and rich fabrics, and he had loved his games . “Look at me!” he would shout as he ran laughing through the halls of Storm’s End . The bold little boy with wild black hair was a man grown now, one-and-twenty .
Lord Stannis and a small garrison held the castle for close to a year . Even the sea was closed against them, watched day and night by Redwyne galleys flying the burgundy banners of the Arbor . Within Storm’s End, the horses had long since been eaten, the dogs and cats were gone, and the garrison was down to roots and rats .
Lord Stannis Baratheon's refuge was a great round room with walls of black stone and four tall narrow windows . The Painted Table was more than fifty feet long, perhaps half that wide at its widest point, but less than four feet across at its narrowest . On its surface, darkened by near three hundred years of varnish, were painted the Seven Kingdoms as they had been in Aegon’s day .
Stannis Baratheon, Lord of Dragonstone and by the grace of the gods rightful heir to the Iron Throne of the Seven Kingdoms of Westeros, was broad of shoulder and sinewy of limb . He had a tightness to his face and flesh that spoke of leather cured in the sun until it was as tough as steel . His brother, the late King Robert, had grown a beard in his final years .
“Once you were young. Now you are old and sick, and need your sleep,” Cressen said . “I knew you’d learn what Davos had to say soon enough.” “I would be of no help to you if I did not.” “He would have made you a poor envoy then.” “The storm lords will not rise for me.” It seems they do not like me, and the justice of my cause means nothing to them. The bold ones have already declared for Renly. For
Dragonstone commanded the allegiance of only a handful of lesser lords . He needed a man’s strength to rule here, and Renly was but a child . It was a grievance, deeply felt, and never more so than now . What has Renly done to earn a throne?
Celtigar, Velaryon, Bar Emmon, the whole paltry lot of them. A poor crop, if truth be told, but they are what my brothers have left me. That Lysene pirate Salladhor Saan will be there with the latest tally of what I owe him. Morosh the Myrman will caution me with talk of tides and autumn gales.
"Why should I avenge Eddard Stark? The man was nothing to me," Maester Cressen said gently . He thanked Stark, for lifting the siege when we were down to rats and radishes . I built a fleet at Robert’s command, took Dragonstone in his name .
Lady Selyse was as tall as her husband, thin of body and thin of face, with prominent ears, a sharp nose, and the faintest hint of a mustache on her upper lip . She plucked it daily and cursed it regularly, yet it never failed to return . "The boy is weak and sickly," Lord Stannis objected .
Lord Stannis had always been uncomfortable around women, even his own wife . He had left Selyse on Dragonstone with their daughter . The Florent lands lie too close to Highgarden for lord uncle to risk Mace Tyrell’s wrath .
Stannis looked at his lady with narrowed eyes, until Cressen could not hold his tongue . “My brother is young and strong, and he has a vast host around him,” Cressen was horrorstruck . Maester Cressen bent a stiff knee .
Melisandre of Asshai, sorceress, shadowbinder, and priestess to R’hllor, the Lord of Light, the Heart of Fire, the God of Flame and Shadow . When Cressen was safe back in his own rooms, he sent the younger man away and limped to his balcony once more . He watched until she vanished behind a headland .
A dozen crystals rattled across the parchment he’d been reading . The chain around his throat felt very heavy . He touched one of the crystals lightly with the tip of his little finger . It was made from a plant that grew only on the islands of the Jade Sea .
In the Citadel, it was simply called the strangler . Dissolved in wine, it would make the muscles of a man’s throat tighter than any fist, shutting off his windpipe . They said a victim’s face turned as purple as the little crystal seed from which his death was grown . And so did the red woman, Melisandre of Asshai .
Cressen was always summoned for feasts, seated near the salt, close to Lord Stannis . His lord’s face swam up before him, not the man he was but the boy he had been, standing cold in the shadows while the sun shone on his elder brother . Cressen owned no hollow rings, such as the poisoners of Lys were said to favor, but a myriad of pockets great and small were sewn inside his robe .
The doors to the Great Hall were set in the mouth of a stone dragon . It would be better to enter alone; he must not appear feeble . A pair of guardsmen opened the heavy red doors before Cressen .
Patchface lurched into Cressen, knocking his cane out from under him . They went crashing down together amidst the rushes in a tangle of arms and legs .
Lady Melisandre wore red head to heel, a long loose gown of flowing silk as bright as fire . Around her throat was a red gold choker tighter than any maester’s chain . She was graceful, taller than most knights, with full breasts and narrow waist and a heart-shaped face .
Melisandre turned from him in a swirl of red silk and made her way back to Patchface, where King Stannis and his queen were seated . Cressen looked over knights and captains and lords sitting silent . Lord Celtigar, aged and sour, wore a mantle trimmed with white seal .
Lord Stannis turned away to say something to Melisandre, who had seated herself at his right hand, in the place of high honor . Lady Selyse was on his left, flashing a smile as bright and brittle as her jewels . At your side, I belong at your side .
Ser Davos slid his hands up into his sleeves as if for warmth . “Lord Stannis. You forget yourself, Maester.” “He is old, his mind wanders,” the king said .
“If you will speak such folly, Maester, you ought to wear your crown again,” Lady Selyse agreed . Patchface’s eyes were shadowed beneath his heavy brow, his mouth tight as his jaw worked silently . He always ground his teeth when he was angry .
Ser Davos’ cup was before him, still half-full of sour red . He found a flake of crystal in his sleeve, held it tight between thumb and forefinger as he reached for the cup . In the blink of an eye, his fingers were empty .
ARYA At Winterfell they had called her “Arya Horseface” and she’d thought nothing could be worse . When Yoren dragged her into that alley she thought he meant to kill her, but the sour old man had only held her tight . She remembered how the breeze sent the fistfuls of dirty brown hair skittering across the paving stones, toward the sept where her father had died .
Leaving King’s Landing was easy, just like he’d said . Arya wished the Rush would rise and wash the whole city away . Lommy Greenhands and Hot Pie were the hardest part .
Yoren had bought five wagons out of King’s Landing, laden with supplies for the Wall . Arya would have preferred a real horse, but the donkey was better than riding on a wagon . Lommy and Hot Pie took her silence to mean she was scared, or stupid, or deaf .
“Maybe he’s a little squire,” Hot Pie put in . “He ain’t no ... look at him. I bet that’s not even a real sword.” Arya hated them making fun of Needle. “It’s castle-forged steel, you stupid,” she snapped .
Yoren didn’t know about the stableboy, but she was afraid of what he might do if he found out . “Look at him,” brayed Lommy Greenhands . She had cried in her sleep the night before, dreaming of her father .
Hot Pie was on his knees, his fist closing around a big jagged rock . The Bull shouted, “Behind you,” and Arya spun . He raised dyed green hands in front of his face and squealed at her to get away .
Hot Pie was sprawled out on the ground with his breeches brown and smelly, crying as Arya whapped him over and over . When Lommy and some others started to squeal, the old man turned on them too . “You come with me, boy. Now.” They were all looking at her, even the three chained and manacled in the back .
Arya shrieked again, clutching the tree to keep from falling . The stroke made her jump and howl . She could feel a thin trickle of blood running down her left leg .
Yoren tossed her stick sword back at the wagons . It did help, some, though the taste of it was foul and it made her spit look like blood . Hot Pie was worse off; Lommy Greenhands wasn’t even hurt .
The kingsroad wound its way past Winterfell on its way to the Wall . Jon Snow had promised he’d leave her there with no one any wiser about who she’d been . Sansa was watching it from her tower window when Ser Arys Oakheart arrived to escort her to the tourney grounds .
Ser Arys offered his arm and she let him lead her from her chamber . If she must have one of the Kingsguard dogging her steps, Sansa preferred it be him . Ser Meryn cold, and Ser Mandon’s strange dead eyes made her uneasy .
Ser Arys had light brown hair and a face that was not unpleasant to look upon . He made quite the dashing figure, with his white silk cloak fastened at the shoulder by a golden leaf . “Yet I fear the triumph will have no savor. This will be a small field, and poor. There is small honor in unhorsing green boys,” she said .
Ser Arys fell silent as a column of Lannister guardsmen marched past, in crimson cloaks and lion-crested helms . The carpenters had erected a gallery and lists in the outer bailey . It was a poor thing indeed, and the meager throng that had gathered to watch filled but half the seats .
Sandor Clegane stood at guard, his hands resting on his swordbelt . The white cloak of the Kingsguard was draped over his broad shoulders and fastened with a jeweled brooch . “Lady Sansa,” the Hound announced curtly when he saw her .
“I thank you for them . and for your tender words. I pray you a lucky name day, Your Grace.” “Have you heard? The Beggar King is dead.” “Who?” For a moment Sansa was afraid he meant Robb. “Viserys. The last son of Mad King Aerys. He’s been going about the Free Cities since before I was born, calling himself a king. Well, Mother says the Dothraki finally crowned him. With mol
"Ser Meryn Trant of the Kingsguard," a herald called . The Hound had never taken a knight’s vows, and he hated his brother . She wondered whose notion it was for them to ride in Joffrey’s tourney .
Ser Meryn swung the point of his lance to strike Ser Hobber in the chest . The lance was a knight’s weapon, Sansa knew, the Slynts lowborn .
Janos Slynt seized Lord Eddard’s severed head by the hair and raised it on high . On his shield was the bloody spear his father had chosen as the sigil of their new-made house . But he did not seem to know what to do with the shield as he urged his horse forward .
Ser Dontos the Red, a small man in dented plate without device, duly appeared at the west end of the yard . The knight appeared a moment later, cursing and staggering, clad in breastplate and plumed helm and nothing else . Joffrey had a look in his eyes that Sansa remembered well, the same look he’d had at the Great Sept of Baelor the day he pronounced death on Lord Eddard Stark .
“You’re lying,” Joffrey said. “I ought to drown you with him, if you care for him so much.” “I don’t care for them, Your Grace.” The words tumbled out desperately. “Drown him or have his head off, but please . . not today, not on your name day. What a man sows on his name day, he reaps throughout the year.” His voice was flat, as if he did not care a whit whether the
The master of revels bowed, but Prince Tommen was not so obedient . “I’m supposed to ride against the straw man.” “Not today.” “But I want to ride!” “Mother said,” mocked the king. “Don’t be childish.” “We’re children.” The Hound laughed .
A pair of squires buckled the prince into his ornate silver-and-crimson armor . A tall plume of red feathers sprouted from the crest of his helm . The lion of Lannister and crowned stag of Baratheon frolicked together on his shield .
The quintain spun, the padded mace flying around to give the prince a mighty whack in the back of his head . King Joffrey laughed longest and loudest of all. “Oh,” Princess Myrcella cried. She scrambled out of the box and ran to her little brother .
Clegane stepped close to the king, one hand on the hilt of his longsword . The standard they carried was the lion of Lannister, golden on its crimson field . Some wore shabby skins and boiled leather, with long hair and fierce beards . Others wore bloodstained bandages over their brows or wrapped around their hands .
Tyrion scooped the boy out of his saddle, armor and all, and deposited him on the ground beside his uncle . Myrcella came running after her brother, and the dwarf picked her up by the waist and spun her in a circle, squealing . The little man kissed her lightly on the brow and came waddling across the yard toward Joffrey .
“I’m sorry my lady mother took you captive, my lord,” the king replied . “A great many people are sorry for that,” Tyrion replied, “and before I am done, some may be a deal sorrier.” Joff did not know what to make of that .
TYRION In the chilly white raiment of the Kingsguard, Ser Mandon Moore looked like a corpse in a shroud . “I would be only a small disturbance, ser.” “Her Grace left orders, the council in session is not to be disturbed.” “My father was a traitor,” Sansa said .
“Her Grace does not wish to be disturbed,” Ser Mandon repeated slowly, as if Tyrion were a dullard who had not heard him the first time . “You,” his sister Cersei said in a tone that was equal parts disbelief and distaste . Tyrion paused to admire the pair of Valyrian sphinxes that guarded the door .
The eunuch Varys sauntered to the table and placed the tightly rolled parchment between them . Cersei snatched the seal out of his hands. She broke the wax and unrolled the parchment. Tyrion watched her read .
Tyrion smiled at him, remembering a dagger with a dragonbone hilt and a Valyrian steel blade . He wondered if Lord Petyr would find that subject amusing as well . "I ask for an army and my father sends me a dwarf," Tyrion said politely .
Janos Slynt rose hesitantly and Grand Maester Pycelle rose ponderously . Littlefinger was the last Hand to depart King’s Landing .
"I hope Father did not send you all this way to plague us with history lessons," his sister said . "How I have yearned for the sound of your sweet voice," Tyrion sighed to her . “Why would he inflict you on me? I wanted him to come himself.” She crushed Lord Tywin’s letter in her fingers .
“I’ve given it out that I have the younger brat as well, but it’s a lie. I sent Meryn Trant to take her in hand when Robert died, but her wretched dancing master interfered and the girl fled. No one has seen her since. Likely she’s dead. A great many people died that day,” Cersei snapped .
“The High Septon claims we profaned Baelor’s Sept with blood, after lying to him about our intent.” “It would seem he has a point,” Tyrion said. “Truly? His own daughter?” Sansa had always seemed such a sweet child, tender and courteous. “The girl was wet with love. She would have done anything for Joffrey, until he cut off her father’s head and called it mercy. That put an end to that.” “His Grace has
Ser Barristan was the Lord Commander of Robert Baratheon’s Kingsguard . He and Jaime are the only survivors of Aerys Targaryen’s seven . "Joff will be no more tractable for you than for me," Cersei said .
“I am your brother, you know. You need me, whether you care to admit it or no. Your son needs me, if he’s to have a hope of retaining that ugly iron chair.” His sister seemed shocked that he would touch her . “You have always been cunning.” “In my own small way.” He grinned .
Cersei slapped him. His cheeks were red and burning, yet he smiled . “Why should I care if you do?” “I have some new friends,” Tyrion confessed. “You won’t like them at all. How did you kill Robert?” “He did that himself. All we did was help. The great stinking fool loved it. He could have stopped swilling it down anytime he cared to, but no, he drained one skin and told
“I’ll tell you when I know. Schemes are like fruit, they require a certain ripening” Tyrion rested his hand on the head of the sphinx beside the door . “One parting request. Kindly make certain no harm comes to Sansa Stark. It would not do to lose both the daughters.” Tyrion nodded to Ser Mandon and made his way down the long vaulted hall .
Tyrion rode from the Red Keep accompanied by a dozen guardsmen in crimson cloaks and lion-crested halfhelms . It would be hell to match them with the bodies, he supposed, yet it must be done . Even in the midst of war, certain decencies needed to be observed .
Tyrion Lannister was not pleased by much of what he saw . The streets of King’s Landing had always been teeming and raucous and noisy, but now they reeked of danger in a way that he did not recall from past visits . A naked corpse sprawled in the gutter near the Street of Looms .
The queen has put a thousand craftsmen to work on our defenses . The stonemasons are strengthening the walls, carpenters are building scorpions and catapults by the hundred, fletchers are making arrows, the smiths are forging blades, and the Alchemists’ Guild has pledged ten thousand jars of wildfire . It was no secret that King Robert had left the crown vastly in debt .
A gust of merriment greeted him as he shoved into the inn’s common room . He recognized Chella’s throaty chuckle and the lighter music of Shae’s laughter . “My good lord, I am so pleased to see you,” he gushed, a soft eunuch’s smile on his powdered face .
Chella, a small dark woman whose grisly neckware was hung with no less than forty-six dried, wrinkled ears . “Only so can you prove you do not fear your enemies,” Shae hooted. “A problem I will never need face,” Tyrion said .
“I never noticed, m’lord,” Shae replied . “I’ll look again on the morrow, if it please you.” “Do be careful, child,” Varys urged . Where I can come alone and unarmed, others can come with swords in their fists .
The eunuch hurried from the common room on soft slippered feet . Chella gave a snort and Shae wrinkled up her pretty face . “Did you miss me?” she teased as she took his hand .
"You won’t be far," he said. "You’ll have a house, with guards and servants, and I’ll visit as often as I’m able," Shae said . "Be quiet and kiss me," she whispered when he broke off the kiss to undress .
BRAN Bran preferred the hard stone of the window seat to the comforts of his featherbed and blankets . Abed, the walls pressed close and the ceiling hung heavy above him . He could not walk, nor climb nor hunt nor fight with a wooden sword as once he had, but he could still look .
Summer’s howls were long and sad, full of grief and longing . Do they miss their brothers and sisters too? Are they calling to Grey Wind and Ghost, Nymeria and Lady’s Shade? Do they want them to come home and be a pack together?
Bran asked Septon Chayle about the comet while they were sorting through some scrolls snatched from the library fire . "It is the sword that slays the season," he replied, and soon after the white raven came from Oldtown bringing word of autumn, so doubtless he was right . “It be dragons, boy,” she insisted, but Hodor said only, “Hodor.” That was all he ever said .
Summer had howled the day Bran had fallen, and for long after as he lay broken in his bed; Robb had told him so before he went away to war . Summer had mourned for him, and Shaggydog and Grey Wind had joined in his grief .
Hayhead screwed up his face and said, “What’s this, my prince?” The guardsman retreated . He crossed the room and put his hand on the boy’s brow . “The hour grows late, you ought to be fast asleep.” “I’m talking to the wolves.” Bran brushed the hand away .
Maester Luwin tugged at his chain where it chafed his neck . “They dream tree dreams. I dream of a tree sometimes. A weirwood, like the one in the godswood. It calls to me. The wolf dreams are better. I smell things, and sometimes I can taste the blood.” Luwin grew stern .
Bran howled, louder. “A true prince would welcome—” “AAHOOOOOOO” The maester surrendered . Howling lost its savor once Bran was alone. After a time he quieted. I did welcome them, he told himself, resentful .
Walder and Walder had never seen hot water bubbling from the ground before . They both allowed how it would make the game even better . The game was played with a log, a staff and a body of water . You could use a plank or even a series of stones .
Little Walder was lord of the crossing more often than not . He was tall and stout, with a red face and a big round belly . "No of us will ever hold the Twins, stupid," Big Walder said .
The Walders had decreed that Bran should be the judge and decide whether or not people had said “Mayhaps” but as soon as they started playing they forgot all about him . The shouts and splashes soon drew others: Palla the kennel girl, Calon, TomToo whose father Fat Tom had died with Bran’s father at King’s Landing .
The Walders plundered the kitchens for pies and honeycombs, raced round the walls, tossed bones to the pups in the kennels, and trained with wooden swords under Ser Rodrik’s sharp eye . “You had no right!” Bran screamed at his brother when he heard. “That was our place, a Stark place!” But Rickon never cared .
The smells filled his head, alive and intoxicating; the green stink of hot pools, the perfume of rich rotting earth beneath his paws, the squirrels in the oaks . The scent of squirrel made him remember the taste of hot blood and the way the bones would crack between his teeth . His brother was loping around the walls, full of fury .
Cold iron and splintery wood closed off the only holes through the piled stones that hemmed them in . His brother would stop at every hole and bare his fangs in rage . Snarls would open no paths here. Circling the walls would not push them back . Beyond its sky-tall man-cliffs the true world was calling, and he knew he must answer or die .
Arya saw a smith pushing a wheelbarrow with his tools inside, hammers and tongs and even anvil . Some came on foot, with their goods on their shoulders and weary, wary looks upon their faces . They walked south, toward King’s Landing, and only one in a hundred spared so much as a word for Yoren .
Arya woke in the dark, frightened for no reason she could name . They dug a grave of their own then, burying the sellsword where he’d slept . A boy called Tarber tossed a handful of acorns on top of Praed’s body .
Tarber and Hot Pie and the Bull joined the line of men headed for the tubs . Others settled down in front of the bathhouse . Yoren sent Lommy out with tankards for the three in fetters .
Arya sat up straight, straining to hear a boy ride to battle on a wolf . "Swearing don’t make it true, Hod," the innkeeper said . “I heard the boy rides to fight on wolf,” a man with a tankard in his hand .
Arya sloshed her beer, wondering: Was the Gods Eye near the Trident? She hadn’t wanted to, but Jory said they had no choice, that if the wolf came back with them she’d be killed for biting Joffrey, even though he’d deserved it . The direwolf had finally stopped following them .
Arya was the youngest of the three, slender, fine-featured, always smiling . His hair was red on one side and white on the other, all matted and filthy from cage and travel . The bald one opened his mouth wide and waggled his tongue at her .
"Lumpyhead Lumpyface Stickboy. Have a care, Lorath, he’ll hit you with his stick" "A man must be ashamed of the company he keeps, Arry," the handsome one said . "This man has the honor to be Jaqen H’ghar," once of the Free City .
Arya was almost close enough to touch the wheel when Biter lurched to his feet . The manacles brought his hands up short, half a foot from her face . She hit him. Hard, right between his little eyes . Screaming, Biter reeled back, and then threw all his weight against his chains .
“You don’t know how strong I am.” “You’re asking for it, Arry.” He drew Praed’s longsword . “This is cheap steel, but it’s a real sword,” Arya unsheathed Needle. “Promise not to cry if I cut you?” “I’ll promise if you will.” The Bull shook his head .
“I have a warrant for a certain boy,” old Reysen said . “Why are we hiding?” Arya whispered back. “The queen wants him, old man, not that it’s your concern,” the officer said. “Thing is, the boy’s in the Night’s Watch now.” “You’ll have no one,” Yoren said stubbornly .
“Old fool. I have five men with me.” Yoren spat. “Happens I got thirty.” The gold cloak laughed . “No, I am,” called Cutjack, the plump stonemason, pulling his hammer off the leather apron he always wore. “All of us,” said Reysen, snatching up the tall hardwood walking staff he carried .
Yoren slapped the rump of the officer’s horse with the flat of his sword and sent him reeling off down the kingsroad . When they were out of sight, Hot Pie began to whoop, but Yoren looked angrier than ever . He scooped up the shortsword the officer had dropped .
“Queen wants you bad, boy.” Arya was lost. “Why should she want him?” The Bull scowled at her. “Well, you’re nothing but a little gutter rat!” “Gendry,” he said, like he wasn’t quite sure . “Don’t see why no one wants neither o’ you,” Yoren said, “but they can’t have you regardless. You ride them two coursers.” “Except for you” Jon called softly.
Samwell Tarly sat hunched over a table in a niche carved into the stone of the wall . The glow came from the lamp hung over his head . Sam looked startled. “You didn’t break your fast with us, and your bed hadn’t been slept in.” Rast suggested that maybe Sam had deserted .
Sam’s hand swept over the table, fingers plump as sausages indicating the clutter of books and scrolls before him . He shoved some scrolls aside to reveal a dusty volume bound in rotted leather . “Maybe you could write an account of our ranging, Sam,” he said .
Sam carefully replaced the scroll in the bin from which Jon plucked it . “You’d be surprised. This vault is a treasure, Jon.” “If you say so.” Jon blurted . The Old Bear is taking two hundred seasoned men, three-quarters of them rangers .
Samwell Tarly, the self-proclaimed coward, must face the haunted forest . The Old Bear was taking two cages of ravens, so they might send back word as they went . Maester Aemon was blind and far too frail to ride with them .
Benjen Stark, Jon’s uncle, found two rangers in the wood, slain, but the corpses had risen in the chill of night . The shelves were so closely spaced that they had to walk single file as they left . In summer the wormwalks were seldom used, save by rats and other vermin .
The Wall stretched east and west as far as the eye could see . It shrunk the timbered keeps and stone towers of the castle to insignificance . The morning sky was streaked by thin grey clouds, but the pale red line was there behind them .
Ser Endrew Tarth was working with some raw recruits . They’d come in last night with Conwy, one of the wandering crows collecting men for the Wall . Donal Noye stood in the door of his armory, bare-chested under a leather apron .
Robb will make a good king, Jon said loyally . “They say you forged his warhammer,” Jon remembered . "I was his man, a Baratheon man, and smith and armorer at Storm’s End until I lost the arm," Jon said .
Men came to the Wall from all of the Seven Kingdoms, and old loves and loyalties were not easily forgotten . Even Sam—his father’s House was sworn to Highgarden, whose Lord Tyrell supported King Renly . The Night’s Watch took no sides .
Thoren Smallwood, a sinewy ranger, gave Jon and Sam a cool look . He had been one of Alliser Thorne’s henchmen, and had no love for either of them . "The Lord Commander’s place is at Castle Black, lording and commanding," Mormont said .
Mormont pawed through them brusquely, giving each no more than a glance and a grunt . “These are old,” Mormont complained, and his raven echoed him with a sharp cry of “Old, old.” “I’ll have his best. Smart birds, and strong,” his own bird said, preening .
Renly is not like to heed a quaking fat boy. I’ll send Ser Arnell. He’s a deal steadier, and his mother was one of the green-apple Fossoways.” “If it please my lord, what would you have of King Renly?” “The same things I’d have of all of them, lad. The Night’s Watch is not proud, we take what is offered.” “Thorne has the wight’s hand to show
Aye, Dywen says. And the last time he went ranging, he says he saw a bear fifteen feet tall . He gave Jon a long, searching look. “But we were speaking of hands. How is yours?” “Better.” He peeled off his moleskin glove and showed him . Scars covered his arm halfway to the elbow, and the mottled pink flesh still felt tight and tender, but it was healing .
Maester Aemon had counted more than a hundred name days, Jon knew . It was hard to imagine him as a little boy no older than Arya . He left two sons, but they followed him to the grave not long after, during the Great Spring Sickness .
The Iron Throne passed to the last of King Daeron’s four sons . The new king summoned all his sons to court and would have made Aemon part of his councils, but he refused, saying that would usurp the place rightly belonging to the Grand Maester . “The Prince Who Thought He Was a Dragon” was one of Old Nan’s more gruesome tales. His little brother Bran had loved it. Not quite a year after,
Aemon, the Fifth of His Name, was born the fourth son of a fourth son . He had sworn a vow and would not break it, though the High Septon himself offered to absolve him . The gods meant for him to serve, not to rule, he told them . “Your brother Robb has been crowned King in the North.” “Must I have a reason?” Mormont said .
Mormont gave a whistle, and the bird flew to him again and settled on his arm . He offered the raven a handful of corn from his pocket . You’ll have no wife, nor will you ever hold a child of your own blood in your arms. Singers will praise every little thing he does, while your greatest deeds all go unsung .
The ancient crown of the Kings of Winter had been lost three centuries ago . It looked much as the other was said to have looked in the tales told of the Stark kings of old . Of gold and silver and gemstones, it had none .
Ser Cleos Frey was a son of the Lady Genna who was sister to Lord Tywin Lannister . His eyes were pale and watery and he could not seem to stop blinking, but perhaps that was only the light . Grey Wind, her son had named him; a direwolf large as any elkhound .
Ser Jaime Lannister's cousin the Kingslayer would have been a much different matter . He brought you from your cell to carry my message to your cousin Cersei . "You’ll travel under a peace banner, with thirty of my best men to escort you," Ser Cleos said .
Catelyn Stark wished she could read the thoughts that hid behind each face, each furrowed brow and pair of tightened lips . The remains of the men of his household guard who died in his service at King’s Landing must also be returned to us .
King Joffrey and the Queen Regent must renounce all claims to dominion over the north . Henceforth we are no part of their realm, but a free and independent kingdom, as of old . “THE KING IN THE NORTH!” boomed Greatjon Umber .
Lord Tywin must withdraw beyond these borders, and cease his raiding, burning, and pillage . The Queen Regent and her son shall free my lords and knights from all oaths of fealty, vows, pledges, debts, and obligations owed to the Iron Throne .
Ser Marq Piper and Lord Karyl Vance had been the first to go . It had been at Edmure’s insistence that Robb had given the river lords leave to depart after his crowning .
“More bloodshed will not bring your father back to us, or Lord Rickard’s sons,” Catelyn said . “An offer had to be made—though a wiser man might have offered sweeter terms.” “Any sweeter and I would have gagged.” Robb seemed to think it made him look fierce, royal . It had been no easy thing to convince him to make even this offer, poor as it was .
Grey Wind growled, as if he sensed Robb’s anger, and Edmure Tully put a brotherly hand on Catelyn’s shoulder . “I’m almost a man grown, and a king—your king, ser. And I don’t fear Jaime Lannister,” Robb said .
“I’ll do all I can for my sisters,” Robb said . “If the queen has any sense, she’ll accept my terms. If not, I’ll make her rue the day she refused me.” He wants me gone, Catelyn thought wearily. “You’re old enough to decide which of Lord Walder’s girls you prefer without your mother’s help, Robb.” “My place is at Riverrun with him.” “I could command you to go. As king. I could.”
"You’ll have them sooner if you keep his son as hostage," Catelyn said . "Balon Greyjoy is not a man to be trusted. He wore a crown himself, remember, if only for a season. He may aspire to wear one again." "If I’m King in the North, let him be King of the Iron Islands," Robb walked off briskly .
Hoster Tully, Lord of Riverrun, lay abed in his solar, with its commanding view to the east where the rivers Tumblestone and Red Fork met . He was sleeping when Catelyn entered, his hair and beard as white as his featherbed, his once portly frame turned small and frail by the death that grew within him . Ser Brynden Tully was Robb’s eyes and ears, the commander of his scouts and outriders .
Lord Hoster moaned and rolled onto his side, almost as if he had heard . Catelyn raised her head, to where the faint red line of the comet traced a path across the deep blue sky like a long scratch across the face of god . "That thing’s not crimson," Ser Brynden said .
The fighting has spread south to the Blackwater and north across the Trident, almost to the Twins . Ser Burton Crakehall was boasting that he’d slain Dondarrion, until he led his column into one of Lord Beric’s traps and got every man of them killed .
Catelyn knew Ser Gregor Clegane’s evil reputation, yet still . For Tywin Lannister—Lord of Casterly Rock, Warden of the West, father to Queen Cersei, Ser Jaime the Kingslayer, and Tyrion the Imp, and grandfather to Joffrey Baratheon .
Lord Tywin would like to fight on a field of his own choosing . Harrenhal had desired the highest hall and tallest towers in all Westeros . His armies plundered his neighbors for stone, lumber, gold, and workers .
Old Nan told the story to her own children, back at Winterfell . Harren and all his line had perished in the fires that engulfed his monstrous fortress . The Lannisters were a damnably large and fertile house .
TYRION Janos Slynt was a butcher’s son, and he laughed like a man chopping meat . Tyrion asked him. “I should not object at all. That’s a fine red. From the Arbor?” “Dornish.” Tyrion gestured, and his serving man poured . “Yes, rich,” said the big frog-faced man, taking a healthy gulp .
Lord Janos allowed that he had never eaten half so well . Tyrion filled Lord Slynt’s cup to the brim . He was wearing a cloth-of-gold half cape fastened with a miniature spear .
Ser Jacelyn Bywater knighted him at Pyke. And yet his name does not appear on your list . Lord Janos Slynt took a gulp of wine and sloshed it around in his mouth . You’ll do better leaving that one where he is, my lor—Tyrion. No. He never meant to kill the woman, that was her own doing . He warned her to stand aside and let him do his duty.
A good commander knows his men, Tyrion. Some are good for one job, some for another . Not every man’d do it. Even if it was only some whore and her whelp.” Slynt went on, oblivious . “A hard man for a hard job, is Deem.” He cut a slice off the cheese .
Lord Janos Slynt blinked vaguely at Tyrion . “He’d sleep easier if he had a man like you, I imagine. Or the valiant Allar Deem.” Tyrion said, “but life does take queer turns. Consider Eddard Stark, my lord.” “I don’t suppose he ever imagined his life would end on the steps of Baelor’s Sept.” “There were damn few as did,” Tyrion allowed .
Lord Janos drew out the golden ornament and handed it to Tyrion . “We have goldsmiths in Lannisport who do better work,” he opined .
Tyrion could see the sudden fear in Janos Slynt’s eyes . The younger boys will be fostered out as squires . Let it never be said that House Lannister does not reward those who serve it.
Janos Slynt spun on his heel like the watchman he’d once been, and strode the length of the Small Hall, boots ringing on the stone . He came face-to-face with a tall, lantern-jawed man in black breastplate and gold cloak . Tyrion called Ser Jacelyn to his side and handed him a roll of parchment .
Ser Jacelyn bowed and took his leave, his cloak rippling behind him . He trod on Slynt’s cloth-of-gold cape on his way . Tyrion sat alone, sipping at what remains of the fine Dornish wine .
“I was fearful how you might take it. Can you forgive me?” Tyrion snapped . “Damn you. Damn her.” He could not touch Cersei, he knew . But it rankled, to sit here and make a mummer’s show of justice by punishing the likes of Janos Slynt and Allar Deem .
“Can a whore truly love anyone, I wonder? No, don’t answer. Some things I would rather not know.” Tyrion had settled Shae in a sprawling stone-and-timber manse . He had given her servants to see to her wants, a white bird from the Summer Isles to keep her company . She wanted to be with him more, she told him; she wanted to serve him and help him .
“You will find Ser Jacelyn to be courageous, honorable, obedient and most grateful,” Tyrion said . “You are the Hand. I serve the realm, the king, and you.” “Think how I feel. I’m like to be next.” “Oh, I think not,” Varys said, swirling the wine in his cup .
“Why should a strong man with a sword ever obey a child king like Joffrey?” Varys smiled . “Some say knowledge is power. Some tell us that all power comes from the gods. Others say it derives from law. Yet that day on the steps of Baelor’s Sept, our godly High Septon and the lawful Queen Regent and your ever-so-knowledgeable servant were as powerless as any cobbler or cooper in the crowd .
The eunuch’s smile never flickered, but his eyes glittered with something that was not laughter . The master of the King’s Galley White Hart plots to slip anchor three days hence to offer his sword and ship to Lord Stannis .
Seize the man they bribed and explain what an honor it is to serve as a brother of the Night’s Watch . Have men posted around the Moonrunner, in case the Redwynes find a second guard short of coin.” “As you will.” Another mark on the parchment . “Your man Timett slew a wineseller’s son this evening, at a gambling den on the Street of Silver. He accused him of cheating at tiles.” “Oh, beyond a doubt
Tyrion had the City Watch now, plus a hundred-and-a-half fierce clansmen and a growing force of sellswords recruited by Bronn . The fool figured a one-eyed man would be easier to cheat . “I look them over. I question them, to learn where they’ve fought and how well they lie,” Tyrion said .
ARYA The road was little more than two ruts through the weeds . The bad part was, the road wound back and forth like a snake, tangling with even smaller trails and sometimes seeming to vanish entirely . Arya hated it. The land was gentle enough, rolling hills and terraced fields interspersed with meadows and woodlands and little valleys where willows crowded close to slow shallow streams.
A dozen times a day they had to stop to free a wheel that had stuck in a rut . They came face-to-face with three men pulling a load of firewood in an ox cart . Arya could not help looking over her shoulder, wondering when gold cloaks would catch them . At night, she woke at every noise to grab for Needle’s hilt .
Arya would watch him polish the metal with an oilcloth, shining it so bright you could see the flames of the cookfire reflected in the steel . “I bet he’s that traitor’s bastard,” Lommy said one night . It was safer to stay with Yoren and the others .
Yoren had loaded up wagons with salt fish, hard bread, lard, turnips, sacks of beans and barley, and wheels of yellow cheese, but every bite of it had been eaten . The younger boys would be set to picking blackberries along the road, or climbing fences to fill a sack with apples if they happened upon an orchard . Arya was a skilled climber and a fast picker, and she liked to go off by herself .
Arya thought it tasted wonderful, but Yoren was too angry to eat . A cloud seemed to hang over him, ragged and black as his cloak . Koss came racing back to warn Yoren of a camp ahead .
Arya saw men guarding the fields more and more when they turned north again . At one place, she spotted a man perched up in a dead tree with a bow in his hand and a quiver hanging from the branch beside him . A day later, Dobber spied a red glow against the evening sky .
As the world darkened, the fire seemed to grow brighter and brighter . From time to time, they could even smell the smoke, though the wind held steady and the flames never got closer . By dawn the fire had burned itself out, but none of them slept very well that night .
Yoren had a little girl in his arms, and Murch and Cutjack were carrying a woman in a sling made of an old torn quilt . She cried all the time, a sound, like something was caught in her throat . He laughed through the hole in his face where his nose had been, and Biter started laughing too . “I’m scared,” Hot Pie murmured when he saw the one-armed woman thrashing in the wagon .
Gendry and Cutjack dug her grave on a hillside beneath a weeping willow . When the wind blew, Arya thought she could hear the long trailing branches whispering, “Please. Please.” The little hairs on the back of her neck rose, and she almost ran from the graveside . Hot Pie would have hit him if old Reysen hadn’t pulled them apart .
Yoren wouldn’t like it if she fought with him. She tried to look afraid. “Wolves? For true?” “I heard,” he assured her. “I don’t think I need to go after all.” She went back to her blanket and pretended to sleep until she heard Hot Pie’s footsteps going away. Then she rolled over and slipped off into the woods on the other side of the camp, quiet as a shadow.
“I wish I was home,” Yoren said miserably . The black brother peeled a fresh sourleaf from the bale in the wagon and stuffed it into his mouth . “Might be I should of left you where I found you, boy. All of you. Safer in the city, seems to me,” Froth shone on Yoren’s lips .
DAVOS The morning air was dark with the smoke of burning gods . They were all afire now, Maid and Mother, Warrior and Smith, the Crone with her pearl eyes and the Father with his gilded beard . The old dry wood and countless layers of varnish blazed with a fierce hungry light .
Stannis watched impassively, his jaw hard as stone under the blue-black shadow of his tight-cropped beard . Dragonstone’s sept had been where Aegon the Conqueror knelt to pray the night before he sailed . Ser Hubard Rambton led his three sons to the sept to defend their gods .
Maester Cressen had challenged the Lord of Light and been struck down for his impiety . He drank a cup of death to free Stannis from Melisandre, but somehow her god shielded her . The burning gods cast a pretty light, wreathed in their robes of shifting flame .
Davos Seaworth stank of fish and onions was of the blood of Valyria . He could trust none of them, nor would they ever include him in their private councils . My grandsons will joust with theirs, though . In time my black ship will fly as high as Velaryon’s seahorse or Celtigar’s red crabs. That is, if Stannis won his throne. If he lost .
In ancient books of Asshai it is written that there will come a day after a long summer when the stars bleed and the cold breath of darkness falls heavy on the world . In this dread hour a warrior shall draw from the fire a burning sword . And that sword shall be Lightbringer, the Red Sword of Heroes, and he who clasps it shall be Azor Ahai come again, and the darkness shall flee before him.” Stannis Baratheon strode
The king plunged into the fire with his teeth clenched, holding the leather cloak before him to keep off the flames . Then he was retreating, the sword held high, jade-green flames swirling around cherry-red steel . Guards rushed to beat out the cinders that clung to the king’s clothing .
Devan knelt with Byren Farring and escorted her back into Dragonstone . The Red Sword of Heroes looks a proper mess, thought Davos . A few lords lingered to speak in quiet voices upwind of the fire .
Stannis is our rightful king, it is not for us to question him. We sail his ships and do his bidding. That is all.” “As to that, Father,” Dale said, “I mislike these water casks they’ve given me for Wraith. Green pine. The water will spoil on a voyage of any length.” “I got the same for Lady Marya,” said Allard .
A weathered little inn sat on the end of the stone pier where Black Betha, Wraith, and Lady Marya shared mooring space with a half-dozen other galleys of one hundred oars or less . Out front squatted a waist-high gargoyle, so eroded by rain and salt that his features were all but obliterated . The Lyseni was a sleek, smiling man whose flam
The Lord of Casterly Rock has sent his dwarf to see to King’s Landing . He plucked a grape, squeezed it between thumb and forefinger . A serving girl pushed her way through, swatting at the hands that groped her .
A swift strike, like a hawk plummeting at an hare, and the great city will be ours . You could dress the dwarf in motley and prick his cheeks with the points of our spears to make him dance for us . “Only in promises,” said Salladhor Saan mournfully .
“Ah, yes, the young brother,” said Salladhor Saan . “He takes his bride?” The other shrugged. “The king must be told.” “I have attended to it, good ser. Though His Grace frowns so whenever he does see me that I tremble to come before him. I am an honest man, he must suffer me in silk and samite. Or else I shall take my ships where I am better loved.”
Azor Ahai captured a lion, to temper the blade by plunging it through the beast’s red heart, but once more the steel shattered and split . It is said that her cry of anguish and ecstasy left a crack across the face of the moon, but her blood and her soul and her courage all went into the steel.
Salladhor Saan finished the last grape and smacked his lips . "When do you think the king will bid us sail, good ser?" Davos sipped his ale .
Ser Davos Seaworth had been with Stannis in King’s Landing when King Robert staged a tourney for Prince Joffrey’s name day . He remembered the red priest Thoros of Myr, and the flaming sword he had wielded in the melee . In the end his fire had guttered out and Bronze Yohn Royce had brained him with a common mace.
Selyse’s uncle was a keg of a man with thick arms and bandy legs . The coarse hair that sprouted from his ears did not stop him hearing most of what went on in the castle .
A glimpse of glory awaits His Grace after we take King’s Landing and the throne that is his by rights . Stannis has no taste for such dancing, Davos thought, but he dared not offend the queen’s uncle .
"Your Grace" is the trueborn son of Steffon Baratheon, Lord of Storm's End . "All men know me for my beloved brother Robert," by his lady wife Cassana of House Estermont . The parchment rustled softly as Pylos laid it down .
One hundred seventeen ravens will carry one hundred seventeen copies of my letter to every corner of the realm, from the Arbor to the Wall . If so, the letters will like as not be consigned to the fire, and lips pledged to silence . These great lords love Joffrey, or Renly, or Robb Stark .
Maester Pylos will take Lady Marya across the narrow sea, to Braavos and the other Free Cities, to deliver other letters to the men who rule there . You can tell them, Davos thought, but will they believe? Pylos bowed, and took his leave .
“Your words were blunt and strong.” “And true. Yet you have no proof. Of this incest. No more than you did a year ago.” “There’s proof of a sort at Storm’s End. Robert’s bastard. The one he fathered on my wedding night. Delena was a Florent, and a maiden when he took her .
“I do not know this Lord of Light,” Davos admitted . “Your wife has given you seven strong sons. Do you pray to her? It was wood we burned this morning.” “I feed you now.” “You have given me an honored place at your table. And in return I give you truth. Your people will not love you if you take from them the gods they have always worshiped .
The Iron Throne is mine by rights, but how am I to take it? There are four kings in the realm, and three of them have more men and more gold than I do . Half my knights are afraid even to say her name, did you know? A frightened man is a beaten man .
Theon Greyjoy wished to look on his father’s castle from the sea, to see it as he had seen it last, ten years before, when Robert Baratheon’s war galley had borne him away to be a ward of Eddard Stark . On that day he stood beside the rail, listening to the stroke of the oars and the pounding of the master’s drum while watching Pyke dwindle in the distance . Now he wanted
The Sea Tower rose from the outmost island at the point of the broken sword, the oldest part of the castle, round and tall . The base of the tower was white from centuries of salt spray, the upper stories green from the lichen that crawled over it like a thick blanket, the jagged crown black with soot from its nightly watchfire . Above the Sea Tower snapped his father’s banner .
The Myraham was a fat-bellied southron merchanter up from Oldtown . She was carrying wine and cloth and seed to trade for iron ore . Her captain, Theon, had neither the craft, the crew, nor the courage to attempt such a thing .
Ironborn captains were proud and willful, and did not go in awe of a man’s blood . The Myraham was a wallowing tub, if truth be told, and he would not care to be aboard her . It would have been a much different voyage if a longship had been waiting at Seagard .
Theon's daughter was a shade plump for his taste, with skin as splotchy as oatmeal, but her breasts filled his hands nicely and she had been a maiden the first time he took her . He did not think the captain approved, and that was amusing as well, watching the man struggle to swallow his outrage while performing his courtesies to the high lord .
Iron, lead, tin, those are our treasures . "I would work in your castle, milord. I can clean fish and bake bread and churn butter." "You could go ashore with you," Theon said, squeezing her breast .
Theon’s finger circled one heavy teat, spiraling in toward the fat brown nipple . He took her nille in his mouth, and bit it until she gasped . “You can put it in me again, if it please you,” she whispered in his ear .
Theon's father numbered among his titles the style of Lord Reaper . It had been to bring back the Old Way more than for the empty vanity of a crown that Lord Balon had staged his great rebellion . Mere boys ruled in their stead, and the realm that Aegon the Conqueror had forged was smashed and sundered . This is the season, Theon thought as the last-born, babe and hostage, he had succeeded where Lord
Theon Greyjoy pushed her hand aside and climbed off the bunk . “Once you’re gone, he’ll punish me, milord. He’ll call me names and hit me.” Theon swept his cloak off its peg and over his shoulders .
Lord Sawane had rebuilt in stone, for now a small square keep crowned the hill . It had been a smoking wasteland, the skeletons of burnt longships and smashed galleys littering the shore like the bones of dead leviathans .
A great number of longships stood out to sea or lay beached on the pebbled shore to the north . Some of the sails bore devices from the other islands; the blood moon of Wynch, Lord Goodbrother’s banded black warhorn, Harlaw’s silver scythe . Theon searched for his uncle Euron’s Silence. Of that lean and terrible red ship he saw no sign .
Theon paced the deck restlessly, scanning the shore . He had not thought to find Lord Balon himself at quayside, but surely his father would have sent someone to meet him . It was not as though they had no word of his arrival, but Robb had sent ravens to Pyke .
Lordsport men gazed on Theon with blank, bovine eyes . He pressed a golden dragon into the captain’s palm . “As you say, m’lord,” the man replied, without so much as a bow .
A sailor fetched him down his tall yew bow and quiver of arrows . She made as if to embrace him, there in front of her own father and his priestly uncle and half the island . Aeron Greyjoy had been the most amiable of his uncles, feckless and quick to laugh, fond of songs, ale, and women .
Theon knelt had a purpose here, and might need Aeron’s help to achieve it . He pulled the cork and directed a thin stream of seawater down upon Theon’s head . Sheets washed down his cheeks, and a finger crept under his cloak and doublet .
Theon had not seen his sister in ten years, but that much he knew of her . "You were no priest when I was taken from Pyke. I remember how you would sing the old reaving songs standing on the table with a horn of ale in hand." "Young I was, and vain," Aeron Greyjoy said, but the sea washed my follies away .
Theon had led men in war, hunted with a king, won honor in tourney melees, ridden with Brynden Blackfish and Greatjon Umber, fought in the Whispering Wood, bedded more girls than he could name, and yet this uncle was treating him as though he were still a child of ten . Asha, he thought, confounded. She was three years older than Theon, yet still .
Theon was a sullen boy, quick to sense a slight, jealous of Theon’s high birth and Robb’s regard for him . The Iron Islands lived in the past; the present was too hard and bitter to be borne . Patrek Mallister shared a taste for wenches, wine, and hawking .
Theon had a laugh over that as they raced ahead to an amorous young miller’s wife that Patrek knew . The path they rode wound up and up, into bare and stony hills . They were out of sight of the sea, though the smell of salt still hung sharp in the damp air .
Theon Greyjoy had suffered enough of his uncle’s gloom . He put his spurs into his horse and trotted on ahead, smiling . It was nigh on sunset when they reached the walls of Pyke, a crescent of dark stone that ran from cliff to cliff .
Aeron Greyjoy turned his horse and rode slowly out beneath the muddy spikes of the portcullis . A bentback old crone in a shapeless grey dress approached him warily . “M’lord, I am sent to show you to chambers.” “So you do know who I am. Why is my father not here to greet me?” “He awaits you in the Sea Tower .
Theon was given a suite of chilly rooms with ceilings so high that they were lost in gloom . Greyjoys were not murdered except once in a great while by their brothers . The walls were green with mildew, the mattress musty-smelling and sagging, the rushes old and brittle .
Theon hung a dirk at one hip and a longsword at the other, in black-and-gold . He drew on a pair of black gloves, the silk decorated with a delicate scrollwork tracery in golden thread . Theon’s heart was in his mouth by the time he was halfway across .
Lord Balon Greyjoy had always been thin, but now he looked as though the gods had put him in a cauldron and boiled every spare ounce of flesh from his bones . His eyes were flinty too, black and sharp, but the years and the salt winds had turned his hair the grey of a winter sea, flecked with whitecaps . “Ten years, you say. Stark had you as long as I. And now you come as his en
Theon touched the gold chain. He had forgotten. It has been so long . He dropped the broken chain onto the brazier, where it slid down .
Lord Balon heeds his counsel, yes. I’ve hunted with him and trained with him . He looks on me as an older brother, he—” “No.” His father jabbed a finger at his face . “I remember my brothers very well,” Theon said .
Lord Tywin’s host is at Harrenhal, cut off from the west . Only Ser Stafford Lannister and the raw green levies he’s been gathering remain to oppose Robb in the west.
Lord Balon tossed the letter onto the brazier, atop the necklace . The parchment curled, blackened, and took flame. Theon was aghast. “Have you gone mad?” His father laid a stinging backhand across his cheek . “I will take my crown, as Urron Redhand did five thousand years ago.” Theon edged backward, away from the sudden fury in his father’s tone .
Daenerys Targaryen had seen it first on the night she had burned Khal Drogo . It is the herald of my coming, she told herself as she gazed up into the night sky with wonder in her heart . “The way the comet points is the way we must go,” Dany insisted .
Dany had named him the first of her Queensguard . She called her people together and mounted her silver mare . The dragon sunk sharp black claws into the lion’s mane and coiled its tail around her arm .
Dany the old and the scrawny, the sickly and the lame, the broken animals and the ill-tempered . It was the same with the people. They are not strong, she told herself, so I must show no fear, no weakness, no doubt .
Dany sent outriders ranging ahead of the column, but they found neither wells nor springs, only bitter pools, shrinking in the hot sun . If there were gods in this trackless wilderness of stone and sand, they were hard dry gods, deaf to prayers for rain . Their hunters found no game, and only the flesh of their dead horses filled their bellies . Death followed death. Weak children, wrinkled old women, the sick and the stupid and the heedless, the
Dragons were no bigger than the scrawny cats she had once seen skulking along the walls of Magister Illyrio’s estate in Pentos . Their span was three times their length, each wing a delicate fan of translucent skin, gorgeously colored, stretched taut between long thin bones . They would hiss and spit at each bloody morsel of horsemeat, steam rising from their nostrils, yet they would not take the food .
Aegon’s dragons were named for the gods of Old Valyria . It was said that Vhagar’s breath was so hot that it could melt a knight’s armor and cook the man inside . Meraxes swallowed horses whole, and Balerion .
Doreah took a fever and grew worse with every league they crossed . Her lips and hands broke with blood blisters, her hair came out in clumps, and one evenfall she lacked the strength to mount her horse . Dany went to Ser Jorah as they made camp amidst a jumble of black wind-scoured stones .
Dany kissed him lightly on the cheek. It heartened her to see him smile . The next pool they found was scalding hot and stinking of brimstone . They had lost a third of their number, and still the waste stretched before them .
Ai, Khaleesi. Nameless and godless we found it, the gates broken, only wind and flies moving through the streets. Such places are best shunned. It is known,” Irri agreed . Ser Jorah and her bloodriders followed, and then the rest of the Dothraki .
A maze of narrow alleys pressed close, their facades blank, chalky, windowless . Everything was white, as if the people who lived here had known nothing of color . They rode past heaps of sun-washed rubble where houses had fallen in, and elsewhere saw the faded scars of fire .
Irri and Jhiqui returned with pots of white sand . Dany stripped and let them scrub her clean . Khal Drogo died with his hair uncut, a boast few men could make .
Ser Jorah was the youngest daughter of Lord Leyton Hightower of Oldtown . The White Bull who commanded your father’s Kingsguard was her great-uncle . "The gods were good to bring us to this place," she said .
Bear Island is beautiful, but remote. Imagine old gnarled oaks and tall pines, flowering thornbushes, grey stones bearded with moss, little creeks running icy down steep hillsides . Aside from a few crofters, my people live along the coasts and fish the seas .
Lord Balon Greyjoy rose in rebellion against the Usurper, and Ned Stark called his banners to help his friend Robert . For that I won my knighthood, Robert ordained that a tourney be held outside Lannisport . Lord Jason Mallister fell before me, and Bronze Yohn Royce fell before him .
Bear Island is rich in bears and trees, and poor in aught else . I built a fine ship for her and we sailed to Lannisport and Oldtown for festivals and fairs . It was as a tourney champion that I had won her hand and heart .
Lynesse moved into the manse of a merchant prince named Tregar Ormollen . They say she is his chief concubine now, and even his wife goes in fear of her . She gave him leave to go, but as she lifted the flap of her tent, she could not stop calling after him with one last question .
Khal Drogo had been her sun-and-stars, her first, and perhaps her last . She had heard the longing in Ser Jorah’s voice when he spoke of his Bear Island . He had died with his hair uncut and rode now through the night lands .
Dany tended Ser Jorah’s wound herself, and it began to heal . He had passed the bones of a dragon, he swore, so immense he had ridden his horse through its great black jaws . Dany set them to pulling up the plaza to get to the earth beneath .
Aggo had found the ruins of two more cities, smaller than Vaes Tolorro . He showed Dany an iron bracelet he had found, set with a fire opal the size of her thumb . Dany thanked him and told him to see to the repair of the gates . “If so, we must be ready,” she declared .
Four tumbledown one-room houses of unmortared stone surrounded an empty sheepfold and a well . It was the biggest tree Jon Snow had ever seen, the trunk near eight feet wide, the branches spreading so far that the entire village was shaded beneath their canopy . Thoren Smallwood dismounted beside the trunk, dark in his plate and mail .
Longclaw was fashioned new for him, adorned with a wolf’s-head pommel in pale stone . He knelt and reached a gloved hand down into the maw . The inside of the hollow was red with dried sap and blackened by fire .
Jon was paired with dour Eddison Tollett, a squire grey of hair and thin as a pike . There were no furnishings, no sign that people had lived here but for some ashes beneath the smoke hole in the roof . The house felt as though it had been empty for some time .
Whitetree was the fourth village they had passed, and it had been the same in all of them . The people were gone, vanished with their scant possessions and whatever animals they may have had . "Something worse than we can imagine," suggested Dolorous Edd .
“One thing hasn’t changed,” Ser Mallador Locke insisted . “Find Tarly and see that he gets this on its way,” he said .
The men of the Night’s Watch stood beneath lesser trees, tending their horses, chewing strips of salt beef, pissing, scratching, and talking . When the command was given to move out again, the talk died, and they climbed back into their saddles . By day they followed game trails and streambeds, the “ranger’s roads” that led them ever deeper into the wilderness of leaf and root .
Jon found Samwell Tarly with the other stewards, watering his horses . The birds flapped their wings at Jon’s approach and screamed at him through the bars . Sam took a bird from one of the cages, stroked its feathers, attached the message, and said, “Fly home now, brave one. Home.” Sam tossed it into the air .
Sam pulled up the hood of his enormous black cloak and clambered awkwardly back onto his horse . It was a plow horse, big and slow and clumsy, but better able to bear his weight than the little garrons the rangers rode . The column was well under way, so he swung wide around the village to avoid the worst of the congestion .
ARYA The river was a blue-green ribbon shining in the morning sun . Arya saw a water snake skimming across the surface, ripples spreading out behind it . Yoren spurred his gelding and rode out into the river, but the horse struggled in the soft mud and beyond the reeds .
Dobber found a leather purse in the dead man’s belt . There were four coppers and a little hank of blond hair tied up with a red ribbon . Lommy and Tarber stripped naked and went wading .
Woth reported a wooden bridge half a mile downstream, but someone had burned it up . Yoren picked up a long stick and drew a circle in the mud . He poked a hole beside the line of the river, under the circle .
Evil King Harren had walled himself up inside, so Aegon unleashed his dragons and turned the castle into a pyre . Sometimes men went to sleep safe in their beds and were found dead in the morning, all burnt up . Arya could reveal herself to Lady Whent, and the knights would escort her home and keep her safe .
a cluster of white houses spread out around the walls of the holdfast, a big sept with a shingled wooden roof . Arya found herself with Gendry, Hot Pie, and Lommy . Yoren left ten to guard the wagons and the whimpery little girl .
Arya burst out onto the grassy sward beside the pebbled shore . The setting sun made the tranquil surface of the water shimmer like a sheet of beaten copper . She saw a rambling inn built out over the water on heavy wooden pilings .
Arya plunged her face down into it to wash off the dust and dirt and sweat of the day . They found some sails, some nails, buckets of tar gone hard, and a mother cat with a litter of new-born kittens . The town was as dark as any forest when Yoren and the others reappeared .
“Anyone can build a raft, and long poles for pushing.” Yoren looked thoughtful . “Can we stay at the inn?” Lommy asked. “We’ll stay in the holdfast, with the gates barred,” the old man said .
The walls were rough unmortared stone ten feet high, with a wooden catwalk inside the battlements . There was a postern gate to the north, and Gerren discovered a trap under the straw in the old wooden barn, leading to a narrow, winding tunnel . He had them roll a wagon on top of the trap, to make sure no one came in that way .
Arya drew second watch, so she found a straw pallet in the haven . She borrowed Yoren’s stone and set to honing Needle . There were fleas in the straw, though she couldn’t see why more would bother her .
Arya sat up on her pallet with her heart thumping. “Hot Pie, wake up.” She scrambled to her feet. “What’s wrong?” Hot Pie asked. “No, I heard it,” someone else said. “Let them howl,” sneered Lommy. “Never saw no wolf could storm a holdfast.” “It was a wolf,” she shouted at them as she yanked on her second boot .
Arya saw a roof go up, flames licking at the belly of the night with hot orange tongues as the thatch caught . Then she realized they were men with torches, galloping between the houses . Gendry climbed up beside her, wearing his helm. “Two hundred, I don’t know.” “There,” Gendry said .
Yoren climbed the battlement beside the gate, his faded black cloak tied to a wooden staff . “You see a bloody lightning bolt?” he shouted back down . Arya Stark the Hand’s daughter, not Arry the orphan boy .
Yoren spat. “Who’s got your command?” “I do.” The reflections of burning houses glimmered dully on the armor of his warhorse . “In his name, I command you to open these gates.” All around them, the town burned. “Don’t see the need. Do what you want to the town, it’s naught to me, but leave us be.” Look with your eyes .
Ser Amory raised a lanquid fist, and a spear came hurtling from the fire-bright shadows behind . The spearhead went in his throat and exploded out the back of his neck, dark and wet . Hot Pie dropped his shortsword when he tried to unsheath it .
Arya whirled. The second man was bearded and helmetless, his dirk between his teeth to leave both hands free for climbing . The next time someone tried to climb their part of the wall, the boy hacked at his hands with his swordshort until the man dropped away.
Ser Amory had no ladders, but the holdfast walls were rough-cut and unmortared . For each one Arya cut or stabbed or shoved back, another was coming over the wall . Yoren tangled his black banner around his spike, forcing the point of his dirk through his armor while the man was fighting the cloth .
Arya jumped over a dead boy no older than Jon, lying with his arm cut off . She heard Qyle beg for mercy before a knight with a wasp on his shield smashed his face in a spiked mace . When he did she fell on him with Gendry and Hot Pie .
Hot Pie shouted, “Winterfell! Winterfell!” while Hot Pie screamed “Hot Pie!” beside her as he hacked at the man’s scrawny neck .
Arya jumped down beside Gendry, landing the way Syrio had taught her . The night rang to the clash of steel and the cries of the wounded and dying . Yoren was there, shaking her, screaming in her face . “Get out, it’s done, we’ve lost. Now!” “How?” He screamed .
Arya grabbed Gendry by the arm. “He said go,” she shouted, “the barn, the way out.” He nodded. They called Hot Pie down from the wall and found Lommy Greenhands where he lay bleeding from a spear thrust through his calf . They found Gerren too, but he was hurt too bad to move . She grabbed her by the hand and pulled her to her feet .
Arya remembered the Hound’s horrible burned face . “You go first, then her, then me. Hurry, it’s a long way.” He spared a glance for the chained men.
The fire beat at her back with hot red wings as she fled the burning barn . It felt blessedly cool outside, but men were dying all around her . She saw Koss throw down his blade to yield, and she saw them kill him . Arya drove the head of the axe hard between his legs .
Arya rolled headfirst into the tunnel and dropped five feet down the tunnel . She heard the sound, like the roar of some monstrous beast, and a cloud of hot smoke and black dust came billowing up behind her . Tyrion took the letters from his sister’s hand and compared them side by side .
Cersei could wax over accusations she knew perfectly well to be true . If we lose the war, she ought to take up mummery, she has a gift for it . Tyrion waited until she was done and said, “Stannis must have some pretext to justify his rebellion” .
“A prudent measure,” said Grand Maester Pycelle, his chain of office clinking as he nodded . “When you tear out a man’s tongue, you are not proving him a liar, you’re only telling the world that you fear what he might say.” “So what would you have us do?” Tyrion asked .
"Ser Axell Florent is her castellan," said Littlefinger . "The child has the Florent ears, I’m told," Littlefing chuckled .
“Lord Petyr, you are a wicked creature.” “Thank you, Your Grace.” “And a most accomplished liar,” Tyrion said . “We all have our gifts, my lord.” The queen was too caught up in her revenge .
Tyrion was waiting outside council chambers to escort him back to Tower of the Hand . Tyrion heard Lady Tanda calling to him merrily from the top of the serpentine steps . The climb to his bedchamber made his legs ache .
Pod brought him a cloak of crimson silk fringed in gold, cut to his height . Tyrion liked its Myrish rugs, wall hangings, and sense of intimacy . The gaggle of smiths, armorers, and ironmongers that Bronn collected fell to their knees .
Goodman Ironbelly commanded us to make chainmail and armor, swords and daggers and axes, all in great numbers . "M’lord, begging your pardon, Her Grace said those as didn’t meet their numbers would have their hands crushed," the anxious smith persisted . “Lord Baelish will see that you have coin as you need it,” Tyrion promised .
A demon’s head, Tyrion thought ruefully, now what does that say of me? “Master Salloreon, I plan to fight the rest of my battles from this chair. It’s links I need, not demon horns. The choice is yours.” He rose, and took his leave with nary a backward glance .
Bronn was waiting by the gate with his litter and an escort of mounted Black Ears . Tyrion accepted a hand up into the litter . He had done all he could to feed the hungry city .
The Black Ears were all grins. Inside the door, a tall woman in flowing silks was waiting for him . The floor beneath his feet displayed a mosaic of two women entwined in love . "Titles can be as dangerous as names," Tyrion warned.
Tyroshi with a purple beard dandled a buxom young wench on his knee . The freckled one wore a chain of blue flowers in her honeyed hair . Tyrion felt a stirring in his groin as he drew her dress up over her head the first time .
In the Summer Isles, those who are skilled at giving pleasure are greatly esteemed . Many highborn youths and maidens serve for a few years after their flowerings, to honor the gods . "The gods made our bodies as well as our souls, is it not so? They give us voices, so we might worship them with song, and they give us desire," said Tyrion.
“You are very beautiful, Alayaya,” Tyrion told her when they were alone . “My lord will find my tongue well schooled.” “That pleases me.” Tyrion kissed her hand, and climbed inside the empty wardrobe . He groped for the back panel, felt it slide under his fingers .
“You ought to come like this to our next council session.” “Your sister would not approve, my lord.” “My sister would soil her smallclothes.” “I should hate to think they had grown so sloppy as to be seen.” “Scarcely for naught,” Varys assured him. “How is it a brothel happens to have a secret entrance?” “The tunnel was dug for another King’s Hand,” whose honor would not allow him to enter such a house
The eunuch took a cloak from a peg . It was roughspun, sun-faded, and threadbare, but very ample in its cut . “Men see what they expect to see,” Varys said as he fussed and pulled .
BRAN Long before the first pale fingers of light pried apart Bran’s shutters, his eyes were open . It is one thing to deceive a king, and quite another to hide from the cricket in the rushes and the little bird in the chimney . “He fathered eight, to the best of my knowing,” Varys said .
The Walders would break lances with the squires of Lord Manderly’s escort . It was knighthood he had always dreamed of; bright armor and streaming banners, lance and sword, a warhorse between his legs . Why must he waste his days listening to old men speak of things he only half understood?
Bran washed and brushed with a white wool doublet . He slid his arms through the straps and cinched the wide belt tight around his chest . Hodor swung the dead weight of his legs into the basket and through the holes .
The Walders laughed whenever they saw it on his head . He rested his hands on Hodor’s shoulders as they descended the winding stair . The White Harbor lordlings would emerge later in the morning, with their knights and men-at-arms .
Big Walder’s crest was shaped like a castle, while Little Walder favored streamers of blue and grey silk . Their shields and surcoats also set them apart from each other . Big Walders quartered twin towers of Frey with the brindled boar of his grandmother’s House and the plowman of his mother’s: Crakehall .
Little Walder banged a mailed fist against his breastplate . “He’ll set his wolf on you, cousin,” Big Walder said . Maester Luwin’s voice cracked through the clangor of the yard .
“I will not have you making Hodor the butt of cruel jests, do you hear me? He’s a good-hearted lad, dutiful and obedient, which is more than I can say for either of you.” Maester Luwin looked worn-out and frayed . “You were right to defend Hodor, but you should never have been there,” Bran said .
Ser Rodrik sat on his right hand and Maester Luwin to his left . They put Bran in his father’s oak chair with the grey velvet cushions . He begged Lord Wyman’s pardons for being late .
Ser Rodrik promised only to send the proposal on to Robb for his consideration . Maester Luwin sent Poxy Tym down to the kitchens and they dined in the solar on cheese, capons, and brown oatbread.
“You will refuse him, of course,” said Ser Rodrik . “I would be loath to see my son languish at Harrenhal any longer than he must, however.” Cursed, they say. Not that I am the sort to swallow such tales, but still, there it is. Look at what’s befallen this Janos Slynt .
Lady Hornwood was storing a fifth of her harvest . At Maester Luwin’s suggestion, she vowed to increase that to a quarter . “Lord Bolton has never acknowledged the boy, so far as I know,” Ser Rodrik said .
"You do not look favorably on these suitors?" asked Luwin . "You will wed again if His Grace commands it," Lady Hornwood replied . Ser Rodrik gave the widow a sympathetic nod .
“Why can’t you marry her?” Bran asked . “You said she was comely, and Beth would have a mother.” The old knight put a hand on Bran’s arm. “Then let Lord Hornwood’s bastard be the heir,” Bran said .
Osha swam to the rocks and rose dripping. She was naked, her skin bumpy with gooseprickles . “Might be there isn’t.” She grinned. “What are you staring at, boy?” Bran asked .
“Heard some yattering in the kitchen today about you and them Freys” She gave him a sour grin . “Anyhow he never fights.” He remembered once when he was little, going to the market square with his mother and Septa Mordane .
“A prince should lie better than that.” Osha laughed. “Well, your dreams are your business. Mine’s in the kitchens, and I’d best be getting back before Gage starts to shouting and waving that big wooden spoon of his. By your leave, my prince.” Bran thought as Hodor carried him up the steps to his bedchamber . He fought against sleep as long as he could, but in the end it took him as it always did .
Ser Rodrik promised to bring the matter before the lady and the king . It’s wildlings stealing down from the north, more than I’ve ever seen before . The Greatjon took too many. Half our harvest is gone to seed for want of arms to swing the scythes.
Galbart and Robett Glover had left Deepwood in the hands of Robett’s wife, but it was their steward who truly ruled at Deepwood Motte . A hedge wizard had told him there would be a bountiful spirit summer before the cold set in, he claimed . In the north, all highborn bastards took the surname Snow .
Leobald Tallhart raised his own company of lances. Boys, none older than nineteen years, but every one thinks he’s another young wolf . He remembered Benfred Tallhart, a big bluff loud boy who had often visited Winterfell with his father, Ser Helman, and had been friendly with Robb and with Theon Greyjoy . But Ser Rodrik was clearly displeased by what he heard .
Maester Luwin liked Leobald better, though . “By blood he is half Hornwood. If he takes his uncle’s name .
Lord Cerwyn was a captive of the Lannisters, but his son arrived one bright, blustery morning at the head of two dozen lances . He was riding Dancer around the yard when they came through the gate . Bran felt as though he could not breathe. A giant hand was crushing his chest .
“Are you unwell? It’s only another king.” “Robb will beat him too.” He turned Dancer’s head toward the stables, oblivious to the puzzled stares the Cerwyns gave him. “Fly or die!” cried the three-eyed crow as it pecked at him . “Help me!” he cried until he was certain his lungs must burst . The pain was an axe splitting his head apart, but when the
"I take a different view. If there is food I eat it, in case there is none on the morrow" Tyrion laid the letters beside his porridge, twin parchments tightly rolled and sealed with wax at both ends . "Leave us, child," Pycelle commanded .
Tyrion spied the raven, dark in the dawn sky, and turned briskly toward the maze of shelves at the far end of the room . The maester’s medicines made an impressive display; dozens of pots sealed with wax, hundreds of stoppered vials, as many milkglass bottles and countless jars of dried herbs . Tyrion noted sweetsleep and nightshade, milk of the poppy, the tears of Lys, powdered greycap
The porridge was too thick, Tyrion felt, and wanted butter and honey . Half of the food they ate today came from his lands or Lady Tanda’s . Tyrion tapped his wooden spoon against the edge of the bowl .
“I’m pleased you share my concern. And I thank you for the hospitality of your table. But a long day awaits.” Pycelle’s spotted hand was clutching at his beard the way a drowning man clutches for a rope . Tyrion’s heart glad. One, he thought. He waddled out into the lower bailey; his stunted legs complained of the steps .
Bronn pushed a fall of hair from his eyes, delivering the same strokes in the same order each time he attacks . "That will be the death of him, the day he faces me," he grinned . The sellsword was looking almost respectable .
Tyrion smelled Gregor Clegane’s work or that of Ser Amory Lorch or his father’s other pet hellhound, the Qohorik . “He walked all this way to sing how loyal he is and beg for recompense.” “I’ll make time for him on the morrow,” Bronn said.
Prices had risen sickeningly high on greens, roots, flour, and fruit . Tyrion did not want to think about what sorts of flesh might be going into kettles of pot-shops down in Flea Bottom . “They didn’t eat him, did they?” “Not that I’ve heard.” “Next time they will,” Tyrion said grimly .
Tyrion Lannister snorted laughter while Tyrion struggled up serpentine steps . The queen had not been pleased by the way he dealt with Janos Slynt . Ser Boros Blount of the Kingsguard, wearing white scale and his favorite scowl .
Renly Baratheon is making his way up the roseroad, with all his strength behind him . "He could be here by the full moon," Tyrion assured her . “He has the power of Storm’s End and Highgarden behind him, you little fool,” Cersei snapped down .
The queen jerked on her reins and wheeled her palfrey around . Renly Baratheon did not frighten Tyrion half so much as his brother Stannis did . He had never before led men in war .
Lord Petyr was seated on his window seat, languid and elegant in a plum-colored doublet and a yellow satin cape . Tyrion had to stand on his toes to get a look . A dead hare lay on the ground below; another, long ears twitching, was about to expire from the bolt in his side .
Tyrion thought, it’s not the Wall I have in mind for you . He seated himself in a high chair piled with cushions and said, “You look very elegant today, my lord.” “I’m wounded. I strive to look elegant every day.” “No. But a man gets bored wearing the same colors day in and day out, or so I’ve found.” “That’s a handsome knife as well.” He knows, the insolent wretch. He knows and 
Lord Petyr Baelish, who had a gift for rubbing two golden dragons together to breed a third, was invaluable to his Hand . Within three years of his coming to court, he was master of coin and a member of the small council, and today the crown’s revenues were ten times what they had been under his beleaguered predecessor .
Littlefinger was no threat to anyone . He had no banners to call, no army of retainers, no holdings to speak of, no prospects of a great marriage . Tyrion wondered if he could, least of all now, while the war raged .
Lysa Arryn is more fearful than Catelyn, true . but also more afraid, and I understand she hates you . It was Tyrion Lannister’s turn to smile . “Lysa has woes of her own,” he stroked his beard .
Lord Petyr Baelish's father had been the smallest of small lords, his grandfather a landless hedge knight; by birth, he held no more than a few stony acres on the windswept shore of the Fingers . Harrenhal was one of the richest plums in the Seven Kingdoms, its lands broad and rich and fertile .
Littlefinger looked like a boy who had just taken a bite from a honeycomb . He was trying to watch for bees, but the honey was so sweet . "You served my sister well in the matter of the succession," Tyrion laughed .
“This has been quite the pleasant morning, Lannister. And profitable . for both of us, I trust.” He bowed, his cape a swirl of yellow as he strode out the door . Perhaps as late as moonrise, though he had hoped not . “You are a cruel man, to make the Grand Maester squirm so,” the eunuch scolded .
“A council seat is not to be despised,” Varys admitted . “I’ve promised to deliver his sister’s killers, alive or dead, as he prefers. After the war is done, to be sure.” “My little birds tell me that Princess Elia cried a certain name . .
Doran Martell, Lysa Arryn and Tommen Martell are both heirs . “You have a suspicious mind, Varys.” “I shall take that as a tribute, my lord. In any case, Prince Doran will hardly be insensible of the great honor you do him.” The dwarf laughed.
Sansa had discovered the folded sheet of parchment beneath her pillow . She crushed the parchment to her chest and whispered the words to herself . Come to the godswood tonight, if you want to go home .
The queen had her servants changed every fortnight, to make certain none of them befriended her . When a fire was blazing in the hearth, Sansa thanked the maid curtly and ordered her out . She drifted to her window, watching the parchment curl and blacken .
Sansa missed Septa Mordane and Jeyne Poole, her truest friend . The septa had lost her head with the rest, for the crime of serving House Stark . She tried not to think of them too often, but sometimes the memories came unbidden .
Sansa threw a plain grey cloak over her shoulders and picked up the knife she used to cut her meat . If it is some trap, better that I die than let them hurt me more, she told herself . A column of red-cloaked swordsmen ran past as she slipped out into the night .
Sansa had favored her mother’s gods over her father’s . She loved the statues, the pictures in leaded glass, the fragrance of burning incense, the septons with their robes and crystals, and the magical play of the rainbows over altars inlaid with mother-of-pearl and onyx . But she could not deny that the godswood had a certain power too .
Sansa slid her hand under her cloak, to her hidden knife . “You’re drunk, aren’t you?” Dontos said humbly .
Ser Dontos lurched clumsily to his feet, and brushed earth and leaves from his knees . Lady, I have never been a hero, no Ryam Redwyne or Barristan the Bold . I’ve won no tourneys, no renown in war .
Ser Dontos glanced about anxiously. “The risk is too great. You must come here, to the godswood. As often as you can. This is the safest place. The only safe place. Nowhere else.” “Only here,” Sansa said, smiling wanly . “You will need to be brave and strong . and patient, patient above all.” “I’m afraid .
Florian was racing headlong down the serpentine steps when a man lurched out of a hidden doorway . Sansa caromed into him and lost her balance . Iron fingers caught her by the wrist before she could fall .
“You look almost a woman . . you’re still a stupid little bird, aren’t you? Go on. Sing to me. Some song about knights and fair maids. You like knights,” he mocked . “Gods” he swore, “too much wine. Do you like wine, little bird? True wine? A flagon of sour red, dark as blood, all a man needs. Or an . woman.” He laughed
Ser Boros escorted her across the drawbridge steps . She said, “Why do you let people call you a dog? You won’t let anyone call me a knight” . “I’m the king’s dog, remember?” she said. “You’re the knight, not me.”
A hound will die for you, but never lie to you. And he’ll look you straight in the face.” Sandor Clegane snorted . A dog can smell a lie, you know. Look around you, and take a good whiff .
The Lannisters had burned the lake; if it could die, they’d killed it . They had even set the woods ablaze where they could, though the leaves were still green and wet from recent rains . When they finally summoned the nerve to steal back into the ruins the next night, nothing remained but blackened stones, the hollow shells of houses .
Ser Amory Lorch had given no more thought to burying his own dead than to those he had murdered . The corpses of four Lannister men-at-arms were heaped near Yoren’s . It was Gendry who thought of the lord’s towerhouse and the three that Yoren had sent to hold it . They had come under attack as well, but the round tower had only one entry .
Gods Eye was a sheet of sun-hammered blue that filled half the world . Arya wanted to leap into those placid blue waters, to feel clean again, to swim and splash and bask in the sun . At the end of the day she would often sit on a rock and dangle her feet in cool water .
Arya had eaten a bug once when she was little, so she hadn’t been afraid to eat another . Hot Pie had found blackberries and stripped the bush bare, but mostly they had been living on water and acorns . Kurz swore the wound was nothing .
Arya hopped from the high branch to one beneath it, her hands out for balance . The bark was rough beneath her fingers, against her toes . She descended quickly, jumping down the final six feet, rolling when she landed .
"Might be they’d give us some," Hot Pie said . Lommy Greenhands sat propped up between two thick roots at the foot of an oak . A spear had taken him through his left calf during the fight at the holdfast .
“If it’s a fishing village, they’d sell us fish, I bet,” Hot Pie said . Arya had tried to use her hands, the way she’d seen Koss do, but fish were quicker than pigeons . “We should catch some crows, we could eat them,” said Gendry .
Boar hunting was not for ladies, and Mother promised that when she was older she might have her own hawk . “Quiet, both of you, I need to think what to do,” said Hot Pie. “A bad thief,” Arya said, “or he wouldn’t have got caught.” “Arry should go,” said Lommy. “And there’s wolves,” Hot Pie said.
Hot Pie: "No one is leaving you," Gendry said in disgust . "Whoever it is, you should yield to them," Lommy whined . Kurz had died of his wound, and he’d been a lot stronger .
Maester Luwin would have helped anyone who came to him, she was certain . “He’s going to die, and the sooner he does it, the better for the rest of us. We should just leave him, like he says. If it was you or me hurt, you know he’d leave us.” They scrambled down a steep cut and up the other side .
Arya blurted, desperate to escape the subject of the cock she didn’t have . She remembered what Yoren had said, the day he had hacked off her hair . The queen wanted him too, only they’d rape you first .
Arya looked down at her ragged clothes and bare feet, all cracked and callused . She saw the dirt under her nails, the scabs on her elbows, the scratches on her hands . “I know my courtesies, m’lady,” Gendry said .
Arya slammed his chest with both hands and sat down with a thump . “You laugh all you like. I’m going to see who’s in the village.” The sun had already fallen below the trees; dusk would be on them in no time at all.
A dense thicket of brambles grew south of the village . By the time she reached it, the long shadows of sunset had begun to fade . She crept along until she found a gap and squirmed through on her belly .
A pair of tall poles had been driven into the muddy ground in front of it . Arya heard sobbing from inside the building, and a shriek so loud and full of pain that it made her bite her lip .
The guards shoved Gendry inside with the boy and barred the doors behind them . The one on the tall staff bore the golden lion, as she’d feared . On the other, three sleek black shapes ran across a field as yellow as butter . It made her angry to see him wearing it, but knew there was nothing she could do to stop him .
Arya's arms and legs were stiff when she finally wriggled out from under the briar into the dark of the wood . It was a black night, with a thin sliver of moon appearing and disappearing as the clouds blew past . In this darkness she dared not run, for fear of tripping on some unseen root or losing her way .
“You’re stupid, Lommy,” Arya said angrily . “All the time, with no one else to help? We’ll never do it. Gendry was the strong one. Anyhow, I don’t care what you say, I’m going back for him.” She looked at Hot Pie. “What if the wolves come?” He grabbed the little girl by the hand .
Hot Pie grabbed his leg and tried to drag him back down, but he wrenched loose and ran forward, waving his arms . He blocked her with a steel-clad arm, and someone else slammed into her and dragged her to the ground . When she tried to bite, her teeth snapped shut on cold dirty chainmail .
Arya was stumbling past the dead men on their gibbet, while Hot Pie told their captors he’d bake them pies and tarts if they didn’t hurt him . They found Lommy where they’d left him, under the oak . “I yield,” he called out at once when he saw them .
Tyrion was garbed in heavy quilted breeches and a woolen doublet . The cloak was absurdly long, made for a man twice his height . Timett had chosen to retreat back up to the cellar after a taste of the cold below .
The substance was the pyromancers’ own term for wildfire . They called each other wisdom as well, which Tyrion found almost as annoying as their custom of hinting at the vast secret stores of knowledge that they wanted him to think they possessed . Once theirs had been a powerful guild, but in recent centuries the maesters of the Citadel had supplanted the alchemists almost everywhere .
Two hundred jars were discovered in a storeroom beneath the Great Sept of Baelor . No one could recall how they came there, but I’m sure I do not need to tell you that the High Septon was beside himself with terror . Tyrion placed the jar he’d been holding back among its fellows .
Too much heat and jars will blaze up of their own accord . It is not wise to let them sit in sunlight, even for a short time . The heat causes the substance to expand violently . Once the fire begins within, the substance expands violently, and the jugs shortly fly to pieces .
The substance is prepared by trained acolytes in a series of bare stone cells . Each jar is removed by an apprentice and carried down here the instant it is ready . The substance flows through my veins, and lives in the heart of every pyromancer .
“I’ve seen enough. Perhaps you would be so good as to escort me back up to my litter?” Hallyne lifted the lamp and led the way back to the stairs . “It was good of you to visit us. A great honor, hmmm, pleasure, my lord.” King Aerys used you to roast the flesh off his enemies . His brother Jaime had told him a few stories of the Mad King and his pet pyromancers .
The Guildhall of the Alchemists was an imposing warren of black stone . Hallyne led him through the twists and turns until they reached the Gallery of the Iron Torches . Ghostly flames shimmered off the polished black marble of the walls and floor .
Tyrion knew that Ser Jacelyn would not send for him unless the matter was of import . The longer Cersei waits, the angrier she’ll become, and anger makes her stupid . Timett helped him up after it .
Tyrion glanced over the map Robb Stark had sent with his letter . "All in good time, cousin. Sit. Rest. You look gaunt and haggard." He looked worse than that, in truth. "Yes," Ser Cleos lowered himself onto a bench .
Tion Frey was his younger brother, Tyrion recalled . "My lord, I do not believe Robb Stark will yield easily. It is Lady Catelyn who wants this peace, not the boy." "You look in dire need of sleep, cousin. I will send for you when we know more."
The alchemists will be sending a large supply of clay pots to each city gates . Fill the pots with green paint and have them drill at loading and firing . Once they learn to do that without burning themselves, they may be ready for wildfire . Let the boy wait at Riverrun dreaming of an easy peace .
Tyrion peered out cautiously between curtains to listen to rantings of a prophet . A robe of undyed wool belted with a hempen rope marked him for one of the begging brothers . “Behold the Father’s scourge!” Tyrion pointed at the fuzzy red wound in the sky .
Moon Boy was a pious man who worships the Seven so fervently that he eats a meal for each of them whenever he sits to table . The memory of the fool’s jape made Tyrion smile .
Myrcella is a princess. Some would say this is what she was born for . Or did you plan to marry her to Tommen? Her hand lashed out, knocking the wine cup from his hand to spill on the floor . "Why not? She’d be a deal safer in Dorne than she is here," Tyrion said .
Myrcella is the least part of it, so long as he holds her he can be reasonably certain that we’ll keep faith on our side . I’ve also offered him his sister’s killer, a council seat, some castles on the Marches . “You’ve offered too much, and without my authority or consent,” Cersei insisted .
Tyrion Lannister had not seen his sister weep since they were children together at Casterly Rock . When your sister cries, you were supposed to comfort her . He reached a tentative hand for her shoulder . “Don’t touch me,” she said wrenching away .
“There is sitting and there is sitting,” Tyrion said . “And you’re quite certain that Father is the lion?” Tyrion grinned. “It’s on all our banners.” She ignored the jest .
Stark cannot march on King’s Landing without taking Harrenhal first, and even with Bolton he is not strong enough to do that.” Tyrion tried his most winning smile . “Meanwhile Father lives off the fat of the riverlands, while our uncle Stafford gathers fresh levies at the Rock.” Her look turned to disdain .
Dancer was draped in snowy white wool emblazoned with the grey direwolf of House Stark . He wore grey breeches and white doublet, his sleeves and collar trimmed with vair . The low stone steps balked Dancer only for a moment .
Ser Rodrik asked his brother to thank the gods old and new for Robb's victories and the bounty of the harvest . "May there be a hundred more," he finished raising his father’s silver goblet .
Lord Wyman’s musicians played bravely and well, but only Hodor seemed to be listening . He stood beside the piper, hopping from one foot to the other . The noise swelled to a steady rumbling roar, a great heady stew of sound .
Bran sent some salmon down to sad Lady Hornwood, the boar to the boisterous Umbers, a dish of goose-in-berries to Cley Cerwyn, and a huge lobster to Joseth the master of horse . Ser Rodrik reminded him to send something to his foster brothers, so he sent Little Walder some boiled beets and Big Walder the buttered turnips .
Lord Wyman attacked a steaming plate of lampreys as if they were an enemy host . Ser Rodrik laughed loud and often, and Bran thought he liked him . Hothen and Mors were playing a drinking game, slamming their horns together as hard as knights meeting in joust .
Bran and his brothers and sisters sat with the king’s children, Joffrey and Tommen and Princess Myrcella . It was as if some cruel god had reached down with a great hand and swept them all away, the girls to captivity, Jon to the Wall, Robb and Mother to war, and Fat Tom, and Porther, Alyn, Desmond, Hullen who had been master of horse, Harwin his son .
Alebelly led two new guests into the feast . "The Lady Meera of House Reed," the rotund guardsman bellowed over the clamor .
Robb was slim as a boy, with long brown hair knotted behind her head and only the barest suggestion of breasts . A woven net hung from one slim hip, a long bronze knife from the other; under her arm she carried an old iron greathelm spotted with rust .
Bran wondered if he would have to eat a frog to be polite . He tried to recall all he had been taught of the crannogmen, who dwelt amongst the bogs of the Neck and seldom left their wetlands . Howland Reed was one of Father’s staunchest companions during the war for King Robert’s crown, before Bran was born .
Ser Rodrik was right beside Bran. "Do they truly eat frogs?" he asked the old knight . He commanded the serving men to bring them mutton chops and a slice off the aurochs . The girl caught him staring at her and smiled .
Glover men began a spinning skirl on bladder and woodharp . He seized a serving serving girl by the arm, knocking the flagon of wine out of her hands to shatter on the floor . The girl squealed with laughter and turned red as her skirts swirled and lifted .
He knelts beside one of the iron bars that Mikken had driven into the wall . “You can go back to the feast now, but don’t bothering Joseth and that woman,” Hodor replied . He blew out his bedside candle, darkness covered him like a soft, familiar blanket .
The intruders had pushed a few yards into the wood when he came upon them; a female and a young male, with no taint of fear to them . Meera, some part of him whispered, some wisp of the sleeping boy lost in the wolf dream . “The black one is full of fear and rage, but the grey is strong,” the young male said .
Dawn came cruel, a dagger of light. She woke aching and alone and weary of riding . I want to weep, she thought. I’m so tired of being strong. Just for a small while, that’s all . a day .. an hour . Catelyn wished they would all go away. They were good men, yet she was tired of them all. It was her children she yearned after .
Robb had sent twenty of his best to see her safely to Renly . He had sent five lordlings as well, whose names and high birth would add weight and honor to her mission . They were too weak to be a threat, too many to be easy prey .
I want peace too, but why should the Lannisters give me anything if all I do is sit here while my army melts away around me swift as summer snow? “So rather than look craven, you will dance to Lord Tywin’s pipes?” Robb threw back . “Now, will you go to Renly for me, or must I send the Greatjon?” The memory brought a wan smile to her face .
"We ought to reach the upper Mander today, my lady," Ser Wendel said while Shadd spooned out the porridge . "Lord Renly will not be far, if the talk be true," she answered him . The sooner she spoke to Renly, the sooner she could turn for home . Robin Flint had ranged ahead to scout .
Ser Colen was encamped with his host near Bitterbridge, where the roseroad crosses the Mander . The knight raised a mailed hand, and his men formed a double column flanking Catelyn and her guard . They saw the smoke of the camp’s fires when they were still an hour from the river . Nor sound nor smoke prepared them for the host itself .
Thousands of cookfires filled the air with a pale smoky haze . Great siege engines lined the grassy verge of roseroad, mangonels and trebuchets and rolling rams mounted on wheels taller than a man on horseback . The steel points of pikes flamed red with sunlight, as if already blooded .
Across the Mander, the storm lords had raised their standards—Renly’s own bannermen, sworn to House Baratheon and Storm’s End . Catelyn recognized Bryce Caron’s nightingales, the Penrose quills, and Lord Estermont’s sea turtle, green on green . But for every shield she knew, there were a dozen strange to her .
A field had been cleared off, fences and galleries and tilting barriers thrown up . Fewer than a score of knights remained ahorse, charging and slashing at each other as watchers cheered them on . “A tourney,” Hal Mollen declared. “Oh, splendid,” Ser Colen said .
lords and ladies in the gallery were as engrossed in the melee as the men on the ground . Renly was handsome as Robert had been handsome; long of limb and broad of shoulder, with the same coal-black hair, fine and straight, the same easy smile . The slender circlet around his brows seemed to suit him well .
Catelyn was one-and-twenty, the girl no older than Robb, very pretty, with a doe’s soft eyes and a mane of curling brown hair that fell about her shoulders in lazy ringlets . Only four men were left in the fight now, and there was small doubt whom king and commons favored . Ser Loras Tyrell rode a tall white stallion in silver mail, and fought with an axe .
Longaxe flashed and morningstar whirled. Both weapons were blunted, yet still they raised an awful clangor . Ser Loras rained down blows on his head and shoulders, to shouts of “Highgarden!” from the throng .
Squires dashed onto the field to help the vanquished knight to his feet . When they got his helm off, Catelyn was startled to see how young he was . The broken lip, unfocused eyes, and blood trickling through his matted hair made it hard .
She heard King Renly declare the Lady Brienne of Tarth the victor of the great melee at Bitterbridge, last mounted of one hundred sixteen sixteen knights . “I would be one of your seven, and pledge my life to yours, to go where you go, ride at your side, and keep you safe from all hurt and harm.” “Done,” he said. “Rise, and remove your helm.” She did as he bid her.
“Your Grace!” Ser Colen of Greenpools swung down off his horse to approach the gallery . “I have the honor to bring you the Lady Catelyn Stark,” King Renly corrected him .
“I do not sit on my son’s war councils, my lord.” “I’ll not complain. What hashe done with the Kingslayer?” “Jaime Lannister is held prisoner at Riverrun.” “Still alive?” Lord Mathis Rowan seemed dismayed . “I call it weak,” Lord Randyll Tarly had a short, bristly grey beard .
Renly led his bride back toward the castle while his steward conducted Catelyn to the king’s green silk pavilion . The pavilion was larger than the common rooms of many an inn and furnished with every comfort: feather mattress and sleeping furs .
Catelyn turned away sharply, angry with her frailty . She must wash the dust from her hair and change into a gown more fitting for a king’s feast .
The war had not touched the bounty of Highgarden . There were great loaves of brown bread, mounds of turnips and sweetcorn and pease, immense hams and roast geese and trenchers dripping full of venison stewed with beer and barley . The rich foods made Catelyn queasy, but it would never do to show frailty when so much depend on her strength .
Ser Loras shared most of his jests and confidences . He laughed often, and well, and spoke amiably to highborn lords and lowly serving wenches alike . They drank too much and boasted too loudly, to her mind .
The Knight of Flowers could not have reached his second name day when Robert slew Prince Rhaegar on the Trident . They were babes during the Sack of King’s Landing, and no more than boys when Balon Greyjoy raised the Iron Islands in rebellion . It is all a game to them still, a tourney writ large, and all they see is the chance for glory and honor and spoils.
Renly clapped the man on the shoulder and made a jest of it . The Lannisters told him he was too old and gave his cloak to the Hound . He left King’s Landing vowing to take up service with Selmy .
Renly offered your husband a hundred swords and urged him to take Joffrey into his power . “He had sworn to protect Robert’s children,” Renly said . Had you stayed, I knew the queen would see to it that I did not long outlive my brother,” Catelyn thought bitterly .
“I have twice that number here,” Renly said, “and this is only part of my strength. I have a strong garrison holding Storm’s End.” “It would seem that you are the one who has forgotten Stannis,” Catelyn said, more sharply than she’d intended. “His claim, you mean?” Renly laughed .
Three hundred years ago, a Stark king knelt to Aegon the Dragon, when he saw he could not hope to prevail. Your son must be wise as well. Once he joins me, this war is good as done. We—” Renly broke off suddenly, distracted . “I’m here, ser.” “Your Grace.” The rider spurred his mount closer .
The Wall would be flowing off to the south, the melting ice mingling with warm rain to wash down in sheets and rivers . Jon envied them. His wet wool clung to him sodden and itching, his neck and shoulders ached fiercely from the weight of mail and sword . He had often heard the black brothers tell tales of Craster and his keep .
Dywen said Craster was a kinslayer, liar, raper, and craven . He hinted that he trafficked with slavers and demons . “Jon,” Lord Mormont commanded, “ride back along the column and spread the word.” “Aye, my lord.” Jon turned his horse back the way they’d come .
Jon carried the word back to Ser Ottyn Wythers, plodding along with the rear guard . "Dolorous Edd says Craster’s a terrible savage. He marries his daughters and obeys no laws but those he makes himself," he said .
Jon woved a path between rocks and puddles, past great oaks, grey-green sentinels, and black-barked ironwoods . In places the branches wove a canopy overhead and he was given a moment’s respite from the drumming of the rain against his head . The Old Bear had deployed outriders to either side of the column, to screen their march and warn of the approach of any enemies .
Craster’s got ten fingers and one cock, so he don’t count but to eleven . Ghost was trotting along beside Jon’s horse with tail held high, his white fur ruffed up thick against the rain . He moved so silently Jon could not have said just when he appeared .
On the southwest, Jon found an open gate flanked by a pair of animal skulls on high poles . Bits of flesh still clung to the bear skull, Jon noted as he joined the line riding past . A host of piglets rooted about three huge sows in the sty .
The Lord Commander had entrusted his mount to Dolorous Edd . Jon flicked a glob of wet mud out from under a horseshoe . "Go on, I’ll see to your horse. If it’s warm and dry inside, don’t tell me, I wasn’t asked in," Jon said .
Jarman Buckwell stood behind, dripping from patched mail and shiny wet leather . Craster looked to be a powerful man, though well into the winter of his days now, his mane of hair grey going to white . A flat nose and a drooping mouth gave him a cruel look .
Jon and Robb had raced, and found six direwolf pups in the snow . He drank a pull of beer and set the cup aside for a bear’s night . The raven seemed to like the notion .
Craster grabbed a passing woman by the wrist . “Tell him, wife. Tell the Lord Crow how well content we are.” “Slave,” muttered the raven. “Yours are the first living faces we’ve seen since we left the Wall. The people are gone . The animals as well. Nothing is left.
Craster wiped his mouth with the back of a hairy hand . "Your roof, your rule," said Thoren Smallwood, and Lord Mormont nodded stiffly .
Jon Snow bowed stiffly and took his leave . Ser Ottyn Wythers was coming in as he was leaving . He pointed out Mormont’s weapon, a battle-axe with gold scrollwork .
Edd looked at the axe doubtfully, the rain running down his long face . “I’d hate to be murdered with a maul,” said Edd, sounding utterly morose .
Jon sprinted around the hall toward the cry, the earth sucking at his boots . The direwolf had a rabbit in his mouth and another dead and bloody on the ground before him . He knew at once what had happened; a wooden hutch lay on its side in the wet grass .
Lark the Sisterman mocked Chett, who’d left his hounds to see what the commotion was about . “That wolf’s looking at you hungry, girl,” Lark said. “You’re scaring her,” the girl remembered suddenly .
Giant had crammed himself inside the hollow of a dead oak . It was Ghost who found Sam in the end . The direwolf shot ahead like a quarrel from a crossbow .
Jon hung his cloak from the rock to keep the rain off his smoky little fire . He spitted the carcass, banked the fire with rocks, and balanced their meal atop them . The rabbit was a shade underdone, but tasted wonderful .
Sam struggled back into his boots, collected quill and parchment . Ghost laid his head on his paws and went to sleep by the fire . Jon stretched out beside him, grateful for the warmth . Perhaps tonight the Old Bear will learn something that will lead us to Uncle Benjen .
Crouched atop the rock that had sheltered him during the night was the rabbit keeper, wrapped in a black cloak so large it drowned her . The admission made him feel absurdly guilty . “Old Lord Crow, him with the talking bird, he gave Craster a crossbow worth a hundred rabbits.” “A half brother,” he admitted .
“I watched. You never ate at his board, nor slept by his fire.” “I don’t even know your name.” “Gilly, he called me. For the gillyflower.” “That’s pretty.” He remembered Sansa telling him that whenever a lady told him her name. “Is it Craster who frightens you, Gilly?” “If it’s a girl, that’s not so bad, she’ll grow a few years and
A severed hand was climbing his calf and when he pried it off with the point of his longsword, it lay writhing, fingers opening and closing . The dead man rose to his feet, blue eyes shining in that gashed and swollen face . Ropes of torn flesh hung from the great wound in his belly, yet there was no blood .
Jon took down his cloak and snapped it against the rock, shattering the thin crust of ice that had formed in the night . A few yards away he made water into a frozen bush, his piss steaming in the cold air and melting the ice wherever it fell . He laced up his black wool breeches and followed the smells .
Black brothers were feeding their horses and chewing on strips of salt beef . Jarman Buckwell’s scouts were tightening the girths on their saddles before setting out . The Old Bear sat at Craster’s board, breaking his fast with other officers on fried bread, bacon, and sheepgut sausage .
Jon shooed the raven off Longclaw . He found Sam behind the hall, standing with Gilly at the broken rabbit hutch . Sam gave him a look of wounded reproach . “I know,” said Sam guiltily, “but she was afraid. I told her .
The Night’s Watch swam past the skulls on Craster’s gate . They struck off north and west along a crooked game trail . The brook was in full spate, choked with leaves and bits of wood .
Jon thought of Gilly. She and her sisters. They were nineteen, and Craster was one . He hesitated. “Go on, Jon. Say what you would say.” “My father once told me that some men are not worth having,” Jon finished . “Your heart is noble, Jon, but learn a lesson here. We cannot set the world to rights.” Other wars.
Mance Rayder is gathering his people together in the Frostfangs . That’s why the villages are empty . It is the same tale that Ser Denys Mallister had from the wildling his men captured in the Gorge .
Theon Greyjoy looked at the lordling as if she were used to a deck beneath her feet . There were women on the Iron Islands who crewed the longships along with their men . “My eyes can see your face. My ears can hear your laughter. And my cock’s gone hard as a mast for you.”
“I’m Esgred. My lord father’s shipwright.” “You’re wasted on Sigrin.” “Oho. Sigrin told me this sweet ship is wasted on you.” “As it happens, I’m a woman wed, and new with child.” “The gods are good,” Theon said . “Have you ever had a prince?” He asked her .
Theon ridden over from Pyke to get a look at her before she was launched . She looked swift and sweet, even sitting in her wooden cradle on the strand . "I would never mistreat such a fair maiden," Theon said .
"If I confess, will you still love me?" "Still? When have I ever loved you?" "Never," he admitted, "but I am trying to repair that lack, my sweet Esgred. The wind is cold." "Bugger the Drowned God. If he troubles us, I’ll drown him again. We’re off to war within a fortnight. I am a man grown, if I want to bring a wench to bed it is no one’s business but
Theon laced himself back up . "I need to start back to the castle. If you do not come with me, I may lose my way for grief, and all the islands would be poorer." "You could take my squire’s mount," Theon said .
Lordsport was as crowded as he’d ever seen it, swarming with the crews of the longships that lined the pebbled shore and rode at anchor well out past the breakwater . Theon noted that oarsmen and townfolk alike grew quiet as they passed . They have finally learned who I am, he thought .
Theon had given the matter no little thought . It was fighters he wanted, and men who would be loyal to him . Choose men who have rowed together before, if you’re wise .
Theon tried to sail a fortnight past, but Lord Balon would not permit it . “Milord,” a plaintive voice called down from the forecastle of the merchanter . His daughter leaned over the rail, gazing after him . He saw no sense in being coy with this one .
Wex was a baseborn son of one of Lord Botley’s half brothers . Taking him as squire had been part of the price Theon had paid for his horse . Most of the islanders were indifferent riders at best, more comfortable on the deck of a longship than in the saddle .
Lord Botley's misjudgment was his good fortune: a stallion with a temper as black as his hide . Theon was not quite so big as most destriers, that suited him admirably . When he met his new owner, he pulled back his lips and tried to bite off his face .
Esgred pried his fingers off her breast and kept him firmly prisoned . She had strong hands. She was the only woman on the ship . Asha’s favorite gown is a chainmail hauberk that hangs down past her knees .
In the islands it was scarce unheard of for a strong, ambitious uncle to dispossess a weak nephew of his rights, and usually murder him in the bargain . "My uncles pose no threat to me," Theon said .
“I suppose not,” Theon replied, before it occurred to him that some would call him a stranger as well . He considered fondling Esgred’s breast again, but she would probably only take his hand away . “Lord Balon is but the father of a great man,” he said .
"Now you sound a woman," Theon said . He thought of Sigrin the Shipwright, a thick-bodied, thick-witted man, flaxen hair already receding from a pimpled brow, and shook his head . It seemed scarcely any time at all before Pyke loomed up before them .
Theon put his heels into Smiler and rode through at a brisk trot . The hounds were barking wildly as he helped Esgred dismount . They shot straight past him and almost bowled the woman over, leaping all around her, yapping and licking .
Asha gave him a mocking half bow, and crossed the bridge with that walk he’d liked so well . When Theon turned away, Wex was smirking at him . He gave the boy a clout on the ear. “That’s for not warning me. Next time, grow a tongue.” He kicked his boots off, let his cloak fall to the floor, and poured himself a cup of wine .
Theon Greyjoy occupied the Seastone Chair, carved in the shape of a great kraken from an immense block of oily black stone . Asha was ensconced at his right hand, in the place of honor . Theon had nothing bought with iron to save Bran Stark, but he had nothing worth taking .
“Your hauberk must have rusted away, sister,” he threw back . “You may yet, little brother . if you think your Sea Bitch can keep up with my Black Wind,” Asha said .
Asha shouted down at one of the finger dancers holding up a hand . He saw her spun, and suddenly an axe came flying from his hand, the blade gleaming as it tumbled end over end through the torchlight . Asha snatched the axe from the air and slammed it into the table .
Theon had been so young when they took him away to hold hostage . The feast was a succession of fish stews, black bread, and spiceless goat . Asha raised her drinking horn and beckoned for more ale . He could feel the flush creeping up his cheeks .
Theon lurched to his feet and strode off unsteadily to find his father . Rain was falling by the time he reached the swaying bridge out to the Sea Tower . He gritted his teeth and gripped the rope tightly as he made his way across .
Theon was being sent to do reaver’s work, burning fishermen out of their hovels and raping their ugly daughters . Theon turned to see that his sister had slipped in silently, “you shall take thirty longships of picked men round Sea Dragon Point.” Asha smiled like a cat in cream . Deepwood Motte was the stronghold of the Glovers .
Theon Greyjoy stopped in the center of the span and contemplated the rocks below . A sudden gust of wind made him lose his footing, and he stumbled to his knees . He leaned on her shoulder and let her guide him across the rain-slick boards .
Ser Lancel had thick sandy hair, green Lannister eyes, and a line of soft blond fuzz on his upper lip . At sixteen, he was cursed with all the certainty of youth, unleavened by any trace of humor or self-doubt .
Tyrion had been annoyed when the red cloaks had dragged a half dozen of the scabrous prophets down to the dungeons without consulting him . “No doubt we will all be better off for a little quiet in the streets. That is not why I came,” Tyrion said .
“I can’t,” he gasped. “He’s laid siege to Storm’s End. Renly is riding to meet him.” His sister’s nails dug painfully into his arms . Cersei pulled him off the bed and whirled him around and hugged him, for a moment as giddy as a girl. By the time she let go of him, Tyrion was breathless and dizzy .
“It was meant as a slight,” Cersei said thoughtfully . “Shall we raise a cup to brotherly love?” she answered, breathless .
Ser Jacelyn’s gold cloaks faced them across the hall . The steps to the throne were flanked by Bronn and Ser Preston of the Kingsguard . Lord Gyles stood coughing, while poor cousin Tyrek wore his bridegroom’s mantle of miniver and velvet .
“Here are our terms,” said Tyrion . “Lord Stark must lay down his sword, swear fealty, and return to Winterfell . Each of Stark’s bannermen must send us a son as hostage . A daughter will suffice where there is no son .
Tyrion plucked at one of the blades that sprang from the arm of the throne . “Ser Cleos is the queen’s cousin, and mine. We shall sleep more easily if you would see him safely back to Riverrun.” “As you command. How many men should I take?” “Why, all of them.” It was Grand Maester Pycelle who rose, gasping, “My lord Hand, that cannot .
Ser Alliser was a spare, sharp-featured man of fifty, hard-eyed and hard-handed . “You must not think too harshly of us. So many seek our Joffrey’s grace, in these troubled and tumultuous times.” “To his face we call him Lord Eunuch,” quipped Littlefinger .
Tyrion remembered a cold night under the stars when he stood beside Jon Snow and a great white wolf atop the Wall at the end of the world, gazing out at the trackless dark beyond . A wolf had howled off in the night, and the sound had sent a shiver through him . “You’re certain that they are dead this time?” Tyrion asked mildly .
Ser Alliser Thorne was waiting at the foot of the Iron Throne when Tyrion descended . “You are a fool, Imp,” he shouted at Tyrion’s back . The court laughed openly. “Spades will end your troubles,” Tyrion told him .
Bronn seized Ser Alliser by the elbow and marched him forcefully from the hall . Varys and Littlefinger had watched it all, start to finish . “I grow ever more admiring of you, my lord,” confessed the eunuch .
“If I have given offense, I am deeply sorry. All men know how much we love you, my lord.” “Try and remember that.” Littlefinger left them . “Lord Baelish has the truth of it, you know. The queen will never permit you to send away her guard.” “She will. You’ll see to that.” Varys stroked a powdered cheek .
Ser Cleos Frey was escorted by Vylarr and a hundred red-cloaked Lannister guardsmen . Timett gave him a hard one-eyed stare, a curt nod . That night he feasted with the Stone Crows and Moon Brothers in the Small Hall .
Shagga hacked the door apart with three great blows of his axe and kicked his way through the ruins . Timett followed, and then Tyrion, stepping gingerly over the splinters . The fire had burned down to a few glowing embers, and shadows lay thick across the bedchamber .
Tyrion hoisted himself onto the bed. “N-no,” squealed Pycelle. “No, a falsehood, I swear it, it was not me.” “Do all maesters lie so poorly? I told Varys that I was giving Prince Doran my nephew Tommen to foster . I told Littlefinger that I had offered Myrcella to Lord Robert of the Eyrie .
Pycelle shrieked and wet the bed, urine spraying in all directions as he tried to scramble back out of reach . The wildling caught him by the end of his billowy white beard and hacked off three-quarters of it with a single slash of the axe . “He will tell the truth soon.” Darkness pooled in the empty pit of Timett’s burned eye .
Aerys was mad, Viserys too young, Prince Aegon a babe at the breast . He knew where it ended . The axe scratched at the apple of Pycelle’s throat and stroked the soft wobbly skin under his jaw . if he’d left the job half done, doubtless you would have finished it .
“You poisoned him first.” “No.” Pycelle struggled feebly. Shagga growled and grabbed his head . The clansman’s hand was so big he could have crushed the maester’s skull like an eggshell had he squeezed . Tyrion tsked at him. “A falsehood!” “Shave him closer,” Tyrion suggested .
ARYA Fear cuts deeper than swords, Arya would tell herself . It was as much a part of her days as stale bread and blisters on her toes . The Mountain would come into the storehouse after he had broken his fast and pick one of the prisoners for questioning .
A young mother with a pox-scarred face offered to freely tell them all she knew if they’d promise not to hurt her daughter . The Mountain heard her out; the next morning he picked her daughter, to be certain she’d held nothing back . A man the others called the Tickler asked the questions .
Was there gold hidden in the village? Silver, gems? Was there more food? Where was Lord Beric Dondarrion? How many men-at-arms? What other enemy had they seen? What banners did they fly? Where did they go? Where were they with him? What were they armed? Who other enemy were they wounded? What was they flying? What if they were with them? What did they do? What do you think? What is the difference between the two? What are the differences between the villagers
The Lannisters had taken everything: father, friends, home, hope, courage . One had taken Needle, another had broken her wooden stick sword over his knee . The storehouse had been big enough for her to creep off and make her water in some corner when no one was looking . Hot Pie gaped at her with big moon eyes, but no one else troubled to look .
"We never did no treason, the others come in and took what they wanted, same as this bunch." "Lord Beric did us no hurt, though," her friend whispered. "It’s a sin and a shame," an old man hissed .
Ser Gregor made everyone watch while he took off her head with a sweep of his massive two-handed greatsword . Arya glanced sidelong at Needle, sheathed at the hip of a black-bearded, balding man-at-arms called Polliver . The night she was caught, the Lannister men had been nameless strangers with faces as alike as their nasal helms . You had to know who was lazy and who was cruel, who
Arya hated Ser Amory Lorch for Yoren, and Ser Meryn Trant for Syrio, the Hound for killing the butcher’s boy Mycah . The Tickler was almost too scary to hate. At times she could almost forget he was still with them . Every night they marched, and every night she said her names, until finally the trees thinned .
Harrenhal was deceptive from afar, because it was so huge . Its colossal curtain walls rose beside the lake, sheer and sudden as mountain cliffs . Arya could tell that Lord Tywin had been here some time .
Harrenhal’s gatehouse was as scarred as it was, its stones fissured and discolored . From outside, only the tops of five immense towers could be seen beyond the walls . Arya thought they looked like some old man’s gnarled, knuckly fingers groping .
Goodwife Amabel slapped Arya so hard that her swollen lip broke open all over again . Goodwife Harra gave her a shift of grey roughspun wool and a pair of ill-fitting shoes .
The Lannisters are generous to those as serve them well, an honor none of your sort deserve, but in war a man makes do with what’s to hand. Work hard and mind your place and might be one day you’ll rise as high as me. “My nose never lies,” he boasted .
Three thick walls encircled Qarth, elaborately carved . The outer was red sandstone, thirty feet high and decorated with animals .
The Qartheen lined the streets and watched from delicate balconies that looked too frail to support their weight . Slim towers stood taller than any Dany had ever seen, and elaborate fountains filled every square . They were tall pale folk in linen and samite and tiger fur, every one a lord or lady to her eyes .
Qarth itself is hers, she has no need of baubles," blue-lipped Pyat Pree sang out from her other side . "The only palace I desire is the red castle at King’s Landing, my lord Pyat." Dany was wary of the warlock .
Pyat Pree’s gifts will turn to dust in your hands, I warn you . “The crow calls the raven black,” muttered Ser Jorah in the Common Tongue of Westeros . The exile knight rode at her right hand, as ever .
Xaro Xhoan Daxos offered Dany the hospitality of his home while she was in Pentos . She had not expected a palace larger than many a market town, she thought . "For the Mother of Dragons, no gift is too great," she said . The Thirteen will come to do you homage .
Pyat and Xaro had showered Dany with promises from the moment they first glimpsed her dragons . But from Quaithe she had gotten only the rare cryptic word . "We will keep our own watch so long as we are here," Aggo said .
Viserys always said the Seven Kingdoms were more beautiful than any other place in the world . The thought of home disquieted her . She had no wish to reduce King’s Landing to a blackened ruin full of unquiet ghosts .
Mormont had slain her gallant brother Rhaegar, and one of his creatures had crossed the Dothraki sea to poison her and her unborn son . They said Robert Baratheon was strong as a bull and fearless in battle, a man who loved nothing better than war . And with him stood the great lords her brother had named the Usurper’s dogs, cold-eyed Eddard Stark with his frozen heart, and the golden Lannisters,
“Your Grace,” the knight said, “I bring you Quhuru Mo, captain of the Cinnamon Wind out of Tall Trees Town.” The man he brought with him wore a cloak of green and yellow feathers and had skin as black as polished jet. “I am greatly honored, my queen,” said Dany in the same language .
Dany had never looked upon the Usurper’s face, yet seldom a day had passed when she had not thought of him . “The boy sits the Iron Throne now,” Ser Jorah said . The talk is, they mean to claim the crown. And the Long Summer will come again before that one would besmirch his precious honor.” “What honor could he have?” Dany said.
Beneath Dany’s gentle fingers, green Rhaegal stared at the stranger with eyes of molten gold . “I wish you fair winds and good trading, then. You have brought me a precious gift,” Dany said . "I have been amply repaid, great queen.” She puzzled at that .
Dany rose abruptly, her dragons uncoiled and spread their wings . Drogon flapped and clawed up to the lintel over the archway . The others skittered across the floor, wingtips scrabbling on the marble . “The high lords have always fought. Tell me who’s won and I’ll tell you what it means.”
Meera cast her net, the tangles unfolding in the air before her . Summer’s leap carried him into it. He dragged it with him as he slammed into her chest and knocked her over backward . “She wins,” her brother Jojen said. “Summer’s snared.” He was right, Bran saw. “Let him out.” Summer gave a piteous whine, his legs kicking against the cords that bound
Bran grabbed the wolf by his ears and Summer snapped at him fiercely . "He wouldn’t hurt you. He knows I like you," Meera reminded Bran of his sister Arya . They were both older than Bran, even though his ninth name day had finally come and gone, but never treated him like a child .
Bran had never heard of a moving castle before . He looked at her uncertainly, but couldn’t tell whether she was teasing him or not . “You would be most welcome, my prince. Then or now.” “Now?” Bran had spent his whole life at Winterfell .
"I dreamed of a winged wolf bound to earth with grey stone chains," Bran said . "I was asleep for a long time. He said I had to fly or die, and I woke up, only I was broken and I couldn’t fly after all.” "You can if you want to." "At the Wall?" Bran had always wanted to see the Wall. His bastard brother Jon was there now.
Meera Reed hung the net from her belt . “How would I break the chains, Jojen?” Bran asked. “They are open Can’t you see?” “Two are open.” “You have three. The crow gave you the third, but you will not open it.” He had a slow soft way of speaking .
“I felt you. I felt you fall. Is that what scares you, the falling?” Bran asked quietly . “Do you fall every night, Bran,” Meera asked quietly. “Keep him back, Bran.” “I’m not a wolf.” Bran shouted. “To me, Summer!” He slapped an open palm down on the meat of his thigh .
Meera abandoned spear and net, jumped up, and grabbed the branch above her head . Shaggydog’s jaws snapped shut beneath her ankle as she swung up and over the limb . He was badly frightened and somehow ashamed. “They won’t hurt Hodor!” He shouted .
Maester Luwin spent several hours tutoring Bran, Rickon, and the Walder Freys . The maester's turret below the rookery was one of Bran’s favorite places . He found Luwin perched on a high stool, writing .
The First Men believed that the greenseers could see through the eyes of the weirwoods . They cut down the trees whenever they warred upon the children . Does the Reed boy claim such powers? “No. I don’t think. But he has dreams that come true sometimes. You dreamed of your lord father in the crypts before we knew he was dead .
A fascinating pursuit, but of small use, which is why so few maesters trouble themselves with it . There are men who call themselves mages and warlocks, Maester Luwin said . In the course of time, mountains rise and fall, rivers change their courses, stars fall from the sky, and great cities sink beneath the sea .
The dragons are no more, the giants are dead, the children of the forest forgotten with all their lore . "No, my prince. Jojen Reed may have had a dream or two that he believes came true, but he does not have the greensight. No living man has that power," Bran said as much to Meera Reed .
TYRION The rushes were scratchy under the soles of his bare feet . Does Lancel think to find me drowsy and slow of wit at this hour? No, Lancel scarce thinks at all, this is Cersei’s doing .
Ser Lancel was sixteen, and not known for his patience . When his bowels were empty, Tyrion slipped on a bedrobe and roughed his thin flaxen hair with his fingers . "Her Grace the Queen Regent has sent me to command you to release Grand Maester Pycelle"
The Grand Maester is a staunch friend to the Queen Regent . “Her Grace will never consent to this outrage. She reminds you that she is Joffrey’s regent.” “Perhaps you ought write that down so I’ll remember it better.” “You may leave us, Pod,” Tyrion told his squire .
“I am a knight—” “So I’ve noted. Tell me—did Cersei have you knighted before or after she took you into her bed?” “You will withdraw these filthy accusations” “Please. Have you given any thought to what Joffrey will do when I tell him you murdered his father to bed his mother?” “Did he tell you to fuck her too?” Look at him. “No, I thought not.” “I never meant . I only did as I
“Mercy, my lord, I beg you.” “Save it for Joffrey. He likes a good beg.” “Would you have me keep the truth from the king?” “For my father’s sake! I’ll leave the city, it will be as if it never happened! I swear, I will end it . .” It was hard not to laugh. “I think not.” Now the lad looked lost . “My father told you to obey my sister? Very
Tyrion lifted the cup and drank, albeit stiffly . “Smile, cousin. My sister is a beautiful woman, and it’s all for the good of the realm. You could do well out of this. Knighthood is nothing.” Tyrion swirled the wine in his cup .
Ser Lancel took his leave to feel sorry for the boy . It was a kindness that his uncle Kevan had two other sons; this one was unlikely to live out the year . Cersei would have him killed out of hand if she learned he was betraying her .
The moon seemed to follow them as they went, playing peek-and-sneak among the chimneys . They encountered no one but a lone old crone, carrying a dead cat by the tail . The only way to defeat my sister is to play her own game, and that was something the Lords Stark and Arryn would never do.
A handsome woman, Tyrion reflected as he watched her go . It is not what we do, so much as why we do it . The last time he ventured out, a man had spit on him .
Alayaya stood in the doorway, dark and cool in gauzy green silk . “His lordship is come to visit me.” Tyrion gently disentangled himself from the other girl and stood . She lost her black pearls to Marei.” “Maybe I will.” She smiled .
Tyrion heard the sound of music drifting over the rooftops . It was pleasant to think that men still sang, even in the midst of butchery and famine . The tune was wrong, the words too faint to hear .
Tyrion had wanted no handsome young guardsmen loitering about Shae day after day . He had not managed to come up with any sheeplovers, but he did find a eunuch strangler and a pair of foul-smelling Ibbenese . She has never complained of me, and I’m more hideous than all her guards together. Perhaps she does not even see ugliness .
The fire in the bedchamber had burned down to embers, but the room was still warm . Shae lay nude atop the featherbed, the soft curves of her young body limned in the faint glow from the hearth . Tyrion stood in the door and drank in the sight of her. Younger than Marei, sweeter than Dancy, more beautiful than Alayaya, she’s all I need and more .
Arya slept in a shallow niche in the cavernous vaults beneath the Wailing Tower . She had water to wash in whenever she liked, a chunk of soap . The work was hard, but no harder than walking miles every day . Hot Pie ate even better; he was where he belonged, in the kitchens .
Lady Whent had held the castle as bannerman to House Tully, but she’d used only the lower thirds of two of the five towers, and let the rest go to ruin . Now she was fled, and the small household she'd left couldn’t begin to tend the needs of all the knights, lords and highborn prisoners Lord Tywin had brought . The talk was that the Lannisters must forage for servants as well as for plunder and provender .
The Wailing Tower only wailed when the wind blew from the north . If there were ghosts in Harrenhal, they never troubled her . It was the living men she feared, Weese and Ser Gregor Clegane and Lord Tywin Lannister himself .
Arya had felt like a sheep, but Harrenhal turned her into a mouse . The size of the castle made even Gregor Clegane seem small . Its stables housed a thousand horses, its godswood covered twenty acres .
Pretty Pia from the buttery was a slut who was working her way through every knight in the castle . The wife of the gaoler was with child, but the real father was either Ser Alyn Stackspear or Whitesmile Wat . Lord Lefford made mock of ghosts at table, but always kept a candle burning by his bed .
Bloody Mummers was fashioned in the shape of a goat’s head . About his neck he wore a chain made of linked coins of various sizes, shapes, and metals . One of his drinking friends was with him, men-at-arms in service to Lord Lefford .
Ser Harys Swyft’s squire was stabbed to death and two of the Bloody Mummers were wounded . Lord Tywin hanged them both from the gatehouse walls, along with one of Lord Lydden’s archers .
Arya heard one of them saying how a northern army under Roose Bolton had occupied the ruby ford of the Trident . "If he crosses, Lord Tywin will smash him again like he did on the Green Fork," a Lannister bowmen said, but his fellows jeered him down . I could find out somehow, I know I could, if only I could get away. I want to see Jon too, and Bran and Rickon, and Mother .
Arya Mordane had never taken much interest in titles and sigils . He was the only captive who was never seen; he was abed in a tower cell, recovering from a wound . She spied three women in cowled grey robes of the silent sisters loading a corpse into their wagon .
Lord Tywin would soon march on Riverrun, she heard . Or he would drive south to Highgarden, no one would ever expect that . He’d sent ravens to the Eyrie, he meant to wed the Lady Lysa Arryn and win the Vale .
Ser Amory Lorch had fewer men than she remembered, though, and many wounded . Then she saw the three near the end of the column . He had a broad iron nasal that made it hard to see that he did not have a nose .
Arya was dreaming of wolves running wild through the wood when a strong hand clamped down over her mouth like smooth warm stone, solid and unyielding . She woke at once, squirming and struggling . “A girl keeps her lips closed, no one hears, and friends may talk in secret. Yes?” She managed the tiniest of nods .
The Red God has his due, sweet girl, and only death may pay for life . This girl must give three in their places. Speak the names, and a man will do the rest. So a girl must ponder. By the time Arya lit her stub of a candle, only a faint smell remained of him . When she closed her eyes, she saw faces swimming before her .
Arya was a Stark, so she should kill as many Lannisters as she could . But she didn’t think she should trust Jaqen. I should kill them myself . When her father had condemned a man to death, he did the deed himself with Ice, his greatsword .
Chiswyck rousts the brewer and tells him to keep our horns full till the waters fall . So he’s fetching us ale, him and his daughter, and poor thin stuff it is, no more’n brown piss, which don’t make me any happier, nor Ser neither . The fool won’t shut his yap, not him, though Ser is saying not a word .
Eggon’s been drinking and gets to touching her, and might be I did a little touching meself . Raff’s telling young Stilwood that he ought t’ drag the girl upstairs and make hisself a man, giving the lad courage as it were . Joss shrieks and drops her flagon and goes running off to the kitchen .
Ser Gregor, he wasn’t paying no mind to none of our fun, but now he looks, you know how he does, and he commands that the girl be brought before him . Ser says, ‘She is now,’ tosses the old man another silver, rips the dress off the wench, and takes her right there on the table in front of her da, her flopping and wiggling like a rabbit .
Arya leaned close and whispered, “Chiswyck,” right in Jaqen’s ear . The Lorathi gave no sign that he had heard . No one had died of thirst while she was gone, nor even noted her brief absence .
CATELYN The meeting place was a grassy sward dotted with pale grey mushrooms and the raw stumps of felled trees . The direwolf banner of House Stark flapped and fluttered atop the lance he bore . Catelyn wondered how long the grove had stood, and whether Ned had rested here .
Storm’s End was raised in ancient days by Durran Godsgrief, the first Storm King, who had won the love of the fair Elenei, daughter of the sea god and goddess of the wind . On the night of their wedding, Durran had yielded her maidenhood to a mortal’s love and thus doomed herself to the death of her grieving parents . He sheltered Durran within her arms so he took no harm .
Storm’s End endured, through centuries and tens of centuries, a castle like no other . It was a hundred feet high, unbroken by arrow slit or postern, everywhere rounded, curving, smooth, its stones fit so cunningly together . That wall was said to be forty feet thick at its narrowest, and near eighty on the seaward face . Of towers, there was but a colossal drum tower, windowless where it faced the sea
Stannis Baratheon wore a crown of red gold with points fashioned in the shape of flames . His belt was studded with garnets and yellow topaz, and a great square-cut ruby was set in the hilt of the sword he wore. The device on his sun-yellow banner showed a red heart surrounded by a blaze of orange fire .
"Your brother promised me the same. But if truth be told, I would sooner have my daughters back, and leave justice to the gods." "I have no quarrel with Renly, should he prove dutiful. I want only what is mine by rights," Stannis said .
“My son reigns as King in the North, by the will of our lords and people. He bends the knee to no man, but holds out the hand of friendship to all.” “And brothers,” a cheerful voice called out behind her . Catelyn glanced over her shoulder as Lord Renly’s palfrey picked her way through the stumps .
“The whole of the realm denies it, brother,” said Renly . “Old men deny it with their death rattle,” Renly said . The Targaryens called Robert usurper. He seemed to be able to bear the shame. So shall I.”
"You presume too much, Lady Stark. I am the rightful king, and your son no less a traitor than my brother here. His day will come as well." Renly laughed. "You must forgive Lady Catelyn, Stannis. She’s come all the way down from Riverrun, a long way ahorse."
“I brought my suspicions to Jon Arryn.” “My brother’s regard for me was never more than dutiful,” said Stannis . “Do you think he died by happenstance, you purblind fool?” said Renly .
“I did not come here to eat fruit.” Stannis was fuming. “My lords!” Catelyn said . “A man should never refuse to taste a peach,” Renly snapped back .
“I will not be mocked to my face, do you hear me? I will not!” Stannis yanked his longsword from its scabbard . “I am not without mercy,” thundered he who was notoriously without mercy .
Rowan and Tarly and Caron will make me king, with axe and mace and warhammer . All the chivalry of the south rides with me, and that is the least part of my power . My foot is coming behind, a hundred thousand swords and spears and pikes . Half of them are like to come over to me before the battle starts .
"I wonder where I can get a sword like that? It grieves me that it must come to this," said Catelyn . "Though it’s a fool’s law, wouldn’t you agree? The crown will suit me, as it never suited Robert and would not suit Stannis," Renly admitted .
Renly had split his forces, much as Robb had done at the Twins . He had outdistanced his supply lines, left food and forage days behind with all his wagons and mules and oxen. He must come to battle soon, or starve.
“Your Grace, I see no need for battle here,” Lord Mathis Rowan said . Lord Stannis will find no joy in it, and whilst he sits cold and hungry and profitless, we will take King’s Landing.” “Only fools will say that,” Renly argued . “I say that Saintannis is a danger to you,” Lord Randyll Tarly declared.
Renly said, “but wiser than you came. You shall see what befalls rebels with your own eyes, so your son can hear it from your own lips. We’ll keep you safe, never fear.” He turned away to make his dispositions . “I shall not fail you, Your Grace,” Lord Estermont replied .
Ser Robar Royce fell in beside her when Catelyn left the pavilion . Renly had gifted him with a rainbow cloak and a suit of blood red armor . "You are a long way from the Vale, my lady," Renly said .
Ser Robar shrugged. “A man grows weary of tourneys.” He could not be older than one-and-twenty, Catelyn thought, of an age with his king . But her king, her Robb, had more wisdom at fifteen than this youth had ever learned . “Do we fight or flee?” She answered him .
Sansa thought of Ser Ilyn and how those terrible pale eyes staring pitilessly out of that gaunt face . The Hound snorted. “They trained you well, little bird.” He conducted her to the lower bailey . A yellow cat was dying on the ground, mewling piteously, a crossbow quarrel through its ribs .
Sansa's brother fell upon Ser Stafford Lannister with an army of wargs . "Your Grace, the poor child is shocked witless," murmured Ser Dontos. "You Starks are as unnatural as those wolves of yours." "No, your father did," Joff said .
Ser Boros slammed a fist into Sansa’s belly, driving the air out of her . When she doubled over, the knight grabbed her hair and drew his sword . She thought her legs might break from the force of the blow . “No it isn’t,” the king replied .
Ser Boros raised his sword, and Ser Meryn stepped up beside him, his blade scraping clear of its scabbard . Sandor Clegane unfastened his cloak and tossed it at Sansa, fists bunched hard in the white wool . The coarse weave was scratchy against her skin, but no velvet had ever felt so fine .
“No man threatens His Grace in the presence of the Kingsguard.” Tyrion Lannister raised an eyebrow . “Now that was a threat, ser. See the difference?” Ser Boros turned a dark shade of red .
Ser Dontos was no longer a knight, no more than the Imp, nor the Hound . It was dark when she woke again, not knowing where she was, the room both strange and strangely familiar . There was a hard-faced woman with leathery brown skin, three necklaces looped about her scrawny neck .
Sansa dropped her eyes and retreated back inside . She realized suddenly why this place seemed so familiar . All her things are gone and the furnishings have been moved around, but it’s the same .
Ser Stafford was slain as he chased after a horse . Lord Rickard Karstark drove a lance through his chest . Ser Rubert Brax is also dead . Half a hundred more have been taken captive .
Robb Stark is my father’s bane. Joffrey is mine. Tell me, what do you feel for my kingly nephew? The Imp laughed aloud . The shame of being stripped before half the castle made it seem like nothing . No marriage will reconcile Stark and Lannister after all that has happened .
“I only want to be loyal.” She stared at the dwarf’s brutal bulging brow, the hard black eye and the shrewd green one, the crooked teeth and wiry beard . “They tell me you visit the godswood every day. What do you pray for, Sansa?” Robb will beat him .
Ser Wendel lit a torch and led her through the low door . In Winterfell, Septon Chayle hung carved masks from each wall . The Father was bearded, as ever. The Mother smiled, loving and protective.
The Stranger was neither male nor female, yet both, ever the outcast, the wanderer from far places, less and more than human, unknown and unknowable. Here the face was a black oval, a shadow with stars for eyes. It made Catelyn uneasy. She would get scant comfort there. She knelt before the Mother.
Lady Minisa Tully had died in childbed, trying to give Lord Hoster a second son . She was always so calm, Catelyn thought, remembering her mother’s soft hands . If she had lived, how different our lives might have been . I have lost my daughters, Robb does not want me, and Bran and Rickon must surely think me a cold and unnatural mother .
Catelyn had seen enough of Robert Baratheon at Winterfell to know that the king did not regard Joffrey with great warmth . If the boy was truly Jaime’s seed, Robert would have put him to death along with his mother . The dragon kings had wed brother to sister, but they were the blood of old Valyria where such practices had been common .
Catelyn Stark prayed for justice, strength to seek it and wisdom to know it . She went to the Maid and beseeched her to lend her courage to Arya and Sansa, to guard them in their innocence .
The long ranks of man and horse were armored in darkness, as black as if the Smith had hammered night itself into steel . A grey army, Catelyn thought. Grey men on grey horses beneath grey banners . The candles within Renly’s pavilion made the shimmering silken walls seem to glow, transforming the great tent into a magical castle alive with emerald light .
“In a moment, Lady Catelyn,” Renly replied . Brienne tightened green leather straps and buckled golden buckles . “No men were hurled from the walls. I would surely remember that.”
Renly pushed back his hair, bound it with a velvet tie and pulled a padded cap down over his ears . “Your Grace.” Catelyn had waited patiently, but time grew short. “There’s been no word of Ser Barristan since Joffrey cast him out,” Lord Rowan objected .
Renly pulled a lobstered green-and-gold gauntlet over his left hand . Brienne knelt to buckle on his belt, heavy with the weight of longsword and dagger . He had time to make a small thick gasp before the blood came gushing out of his throat .
Renly stumbled into her arms, a sheet of blood creeping down the front of his armor . His legs collapsed, and only Brienne’s strength held him up . The shadow came in that door and blew the life out of him as swift as the wind snuffed out his candles .
Brienne snatched Renly’s from its scabbard and raised it to catch Emmon’s axe on the downswing . Ser Emmon dropped the axe and fumbled for his sword . The second man-at-arms lunged, Brienne parried, and their swords danced and clanged against each other .
Ser Robar was pressing Brienne hard, him in his enameled yellow steel and her in wool . He had forgotten Catelyn until the iron brazier came crashing into the back of his head . They stepped out into darkness and the chill of dawn .
Renly’s battles were already coming apart as the rumors spread from mouth to mouth . The nightfires had burned low, and as the east began to lighten the immense mass of Storm’s End emerged like a dream of stone . And Renly one of them now, gone like his brother Robert, like her own dear Ned . “I never held him but as he died,” Brienne said quietly as they walked through the spreading chaos .
Stannis has won all with a single evil stroke . I am the rightful king, he declared, his jaw clenched hard as iron . The wildlings called it the Fist of the First Men, rangers said .
Thoren Smallwood swung down off his saddle, dislodging the raven from his shoulder . “Old,” Mormont’s raven screamed as it flapped in noisy circles about their heads . The Old Bear was too proud to admit to weakness, but Jon was not deceived .
Lord Mormont said, “We’re not like to find another place as strong. We’ll carry water, and make certain we are well supplied,” Jon knew better than to argue . Foresters tethered the garrons in long lines, and saw them fed and watered . A score of builders set to clearing brush, digging latrines, and untying their bundles of fire-hardened stakes .
Jon stood there for a long time, until the sun vanished behind the saw-toothed mountains and darkness began to creep through the forest . He could see the light shimmering like hammered gold off the surface of the Milkwater as it curved away to the south . On the horizon stood the mountains like a great shadow, range on range .
Samwell Tarly was not about to share his disquiet with his friend . “The Old Bear means to wait here for Qhorin Halfhand and the men from the Shadow Tower.” “I wish I could send them all. They hate being caged.” “You would too, if you could fly,” Sam said .
Jon built a cookfire, claimed a small cask of Mormont’s favorite robust red from stores, and poured it into a kettle . He hung the kettle above the flames while he gathered the rest of his ingredients . The Old Bear was particular about his hot spiced wine .
"I do not mean to risk the Frostfangs unless I must," said Mormont . "They may not wish to. They are thousands, and we will be three hundred when the Halfhand reaches us" "We’ll strengthen the defenses. Pits and spikes, caltrops scattered on the slopes, every breach mended." "Mance Rayder might be massing his host a day’s ride from here," Smallwood complained .
Mormont dug into a sack and offered his raven a handful of corn . “If the rangers must stay in sight of the Fist, I don’t see how they can hope to find my uncle,” Jon admitted. “I dread that as much as you, Jon, but we must admit the possibility.”
Mormont stroked the bird’s black feathers, and stifled a sudden yawn with the back of his hand . “I will forsake supper, I believe. Wake me at first light.” “Sleep well, my lord.” Jon gathered up the empty cups and stepped outside . A great blaze was crackling in the center of the camp . The Old Bear might not be hungry, but Jon was. He drifted over toward the
Jon fed fresh wood to the fire and put the kettle over the flames to reheat . He flexed his fingers as he waited, squeezing and spreading until the hand tingled . The night was moonless, but a thousand stars shone overhead .
Jon slipped sideways between two sharpened stakes while Ghost slid beneath them . A torch had been thrust down into a crevice, its flames flying pale orange banners when the gusts came . Jon followed more slowly, the torch thrust out before him as he made his descent .
The direwolf was digging furiously, kicking up dirt . “Ghost, no, stay,” he shouted, but the wolf paid no heed . The lean white shape was swallowed by the dark . He followed, angry, holding the torch out low so he could see the rocks that threatened to trip him .
Jon jammed the torch into the ground beside him . There were no stones, no roots. Whatever was here had been put here recently . Ghost backed off and sat on his haunches, watching .
Beneath the dragonglass was an old warhorn made from an auroch’s horn and banded in bronze . Jon shook the dirt from inside it, and a stream of arrowheads fell out . He pulled up a corner of the cloth the weapons had been wrapped in, rubbing it between his fingers .
“Lord Tywin is the only one who matters,” said Rickon . “Tell Robb I want him to come home,” Rickon said . His little brother was stubborn as only a boy of four can be .
“You ought to be ashamed of such talk, my lords. Where is your grief? Your uncle is dead.” “Yes,” said Little Walder. “We’re very sad.” The maester rang for help. Hodor must have been busy in the stables. It was Alebelly, though, and had no trouble lifting Bran in her arms and carrying him down the steps. “The way’s easy. Look for the Ice Dragon, and chase the blue star in the rider’s eye.” “No
“I dreamed that the sea was lapping all around Winterfell,” Bran nodded . “I saw black waves crashing against the gates and towers, and then the salt water came flowing over the walls and filled the castle. That Alebelly is one, the guard who called our names at the feast.” “We have to tell them,” Bran said .
"I run and hunt and kill squirrels. And there’s dreams where the crow comes and tells me to fly. But the worst dreams are when I fall." Bran looked down into the yard, feeling miserable . "I never used to fall before. When I climbed. I went everyplace, up on the roofs and along the walls, I used to feed the Crows in the Burned Tower. Mother was afraid that I would fall but I knew I never would. Only I did, and now when I
Jojen studied Bran’s face with those strange green eyes . He put two fingers together and poked Bran in the forehead, hard . There was no eye, not even a closed one .
Ser Rodrik returned to Winterfell with his prisoner, a fleshy young man with fat moist lips and long hair who smelled like a privy . The Bastard himself was dead, Bran learned over supper .
Ser Rodrik looked unhappy. “Would that I could take this serving man’s head off as well, he’s as bad as his master. But I fear I must keep him alive until Robb returns from his wars.” “The sea is coming here,” Bran said . “The Reed boy believes he sees the future in his dreams, Ser Rodriguez.” “He saw Alebelly drowned, and Mikken and Septon Chayle too.”
Meera and Jojen met Bran in his room to play a three-sided game of tiles . "Why would the gods send a warning if we can’t heed it and change what’s to come?" Bran felt suddenly afraid. “What should I fight? Am I going to drown too?” Meera asked .
TYRION Varys stood over the brazier, warming his soft hands . "It would appear Renly was murdered most fearfully in the very midst of his army," Cersei demanded . A groom says Stannis stole through the heart of his brother’s army with his magic sword .
“Mayhaps we will be brothers on the Wall together, you and I.” Varys giggled again . “Might this be some ruse?” asked Littlefinger .
A fifth of Renly’s knights departed with Ser Loras rather than bend the knee to Stannis . It’s said the Knight of Flowers went mad when he saw his king’s body . A pity he stopped at three, thought Tyrion . “Is their love for us any greater?” asked Cersei .
“Scarcely,” said Tyrion. “They loved Renly, clearly, but Renly is slain. Perhaps we can give them good and sufficient reasons to prefer Joffrey to Stannis . “Sweet Petyr, surely you do not mean to suggest that these puissant lords and noble knights could be bought like so many chickens in the market,” Littlefinger said .
Tyrion had spoken with Varys about how they might arrange for Joffrey to visit Chataya’s . A taste of honey might sweeten the boy, he hoped, and Tyrion could do with a shade more gratitude from his sovereign . “My question is when,” said Tyrion .
"Why, all I want is for Joffrey to love me," Tyrion said . "Doubtless you know your son better than I do," he told Cersei . The queen pulled free of the eunuch’s touch . “You would not speak so if you were women. Say what you will, my lords," Varys agreed .
Jacelyn Bywater is nobly born. Send him.” Tyrion shook his head . “We need someone who can do more than repeat our words and fetch back a reply.” “The Hand speaks with the king’s voice.” “You are too kind, sister, but it seems to me that a boy’s mother is better fitted to arrange his marriage than any uncle,” Littlefinger said .
Tyrion knew full well that if he left King’s Landing for any length of time, all that he had managed to accomplish would be undone . “I’ve never been frightened of shepherds. It’s the sheep who trouble me. Still, I suppose an escort might be in order.” “I can spare a hundred gold cloaks,” Tyrion said cautiously .
Tyrion sent Ser Hobber back to the Arbor and keep Ser Horas here. Lord Paxter ought to be clever enough to riddle out the meaning of that, I should think.” Littlefinger was not done . “We’ll want horses. Swift and strong. The fighting will make remounts hard come by. A goodly supply of gold will also be needed, for those gifts we spoke of earlier.”
Ser Preston fastened a vair-lined cloth-of-silver cloak about her shoulders . “You must forgive me if I have spoken to you harshly in the past.” “Today, you mean?” Tyrion asked Bronn .
Theon wiped the spittle off his cheek with the back of his hand . "Robb will gut you, Greyjoy," Benfred Tallheart screamed . Theon dare not push matters too far with his uncle .
Werlag tore the rabbitskin off his belt and jammed it between his teeth to stop his shouting . “Take him, then.” “You command here. The offering should come from you.” He waved his hand, and Werlag began to drag their captive off toward the shore .
Theon looked down on dead men and dying horses . Tymor and his brothers had gathered up what mounts had come through the fight unhurt . Urzen and Black Lorren silenced the animals too badly wounded to be saved . Theon thought of seeking out the bodies of the two men he’d slain himself .
Fishwhiskers and his sons were quick to obey. They slit Todric’s throat as he kicked feebly . He kicked at Benfred’s fallen banner, clutching in the dead hand of the squire who’d borne it . A rabbitskin had been tied below the flag, but being spat on had made him forget his questions .
Theon led his men-at-arms out to finish the butcher’s work with dagger, axe, and warhammer . Only he had not expected it to be Benfred Tallhart . Their wives and daughters had been claimed for salt wives .
Dagmer Cleftjaw had the most gut-churning scar Theon had ever seen . The blow had splintered his jaw, shattered his front teeth and left him four lips . A shaggy beard covered his cheeks and neck, but the hair would not grow over the scar .
Theon had seen it often as a boy, when he blocked a blow from Dagmer’s sword . He put an arrow through a seagull on the wing and guided a longship safely through snarl of foaming rocks . There were no true uncles, only a sworn man with perhaps a pinch of Greyjoy blood four or five lives back, and that from the wrong side of the blanket .
A giant of a man. He serves Lord Drumm of Old Wyk. And Black Lorren and Qarl the Maid are near as dread . "If we sailed, yes," Theon admitted. "I have another plan." He watched the other carefully to see how he would take that . He is proud, I must use that, his pride will be the key.
“I know you too well, Theon. I saw you take your first step, helped you bend your first bow.” “Tis not me who feels wasted.” “By rights I should have my sister’s command,” Dagmer admitted . “You take this business too hard, boy. It is only that your lord father does not know you.” “The Starks knew my worth. I was one of Brynden Blackfish’s picked scouts, and I was that close to crossing sword
A singer had made a song about the axe that cracked his jaw in half . He would call for a reaving song, something loud and stormy that told of dead heroes and deeds of wild valor . "To strike terror into the heart of the foe, as only one of your name could do," Theon said .
Theon is a brave man, but age has stiffened his wits as well as his limbs . He will summon his strength and ride to Tallhart’s aid . "This Torrhen’s Square will never fall," Theon smiled .
Weese’s women had twenty cloaks to mend, a hundred more to wash . Squires tossed pails of water over cookfires, while soldiers took out their oilstones to give their blades one last good lick . Ser Addam Marbrand was the first of the captains to depart a day before the rest .
Arya had learned that Robb had won some great victory in the west . He’d burned Lannisport, some said, or else he meant to burn it . Some of them even took her beyond the castle walls, out into the madness of the camp . I could hop on the back of a wagon and hide, or fall in with the camp followers, no one would stop me .
Arya snatched a silver-banded drinking horn off his saddle, and darted away . She slid between two wayns, wove through a crowd of archers, and jumped a latrine trench . When she gave the horn to Weese, he told her that a smart little Weasel like her deserved a reward .
The Mountain would be leaving with Lord Tywin, though. He would command the van in battle, which meant that Dunsen, Polliver, and Raff would all slip between her fingers unless she could find Jaqen . “Be quick about it now, he’s to ride with Ser Kevan Lannister.” Arya took the paper and ran . It was her fault they’d all been caught .
“I’ll get Lucan,” Gendry said, even though she thought go to hell was a stupid thing to yell . “This is too good for that oaf, and you tell him I said so,” she lied . If she did any such thing, Weese would beat her bloody .
Arya heard snatches of their talk . He’s more wolf than man, all them Starks are .. .” Yes, it’s you who ought to run, you and Lord Tywin and the Mountain and Ser Addam and stupid Ser Lyonel whoever he is, he’s a Stark .
“You run if you want to eat tonight,” Arya shouted . “You won’t be getting lost again, or I swear I’ll beat you bloody.” She ran . The old gods of the north must have been guiding her steps .
Arya whirled and ran, swift as a deer, her feet flying over the cobbles all the way to the bathhouse . She found Jaqen soaking in a tub, steam rising around him . His long hair, red on one side and white on the other, fell down across his shoulders .
Weese rounded up six men and sent them off grumbling to fetch the barrels down to the brewhouse . He ate the rest himself, the grease running down in a shiny line through the boils that festered at the corner of his mouth . A few mouthfuls of dark meat still clung to one thigh . It made her feel bad for telling Jaqen to kill him .
“Weese,” Arya whispered that night as she bent over the tear in her shift . “Dunsen, Polliver, Raff the Sweetling,” she said, calling a name every time she pushed the bone needle through the undyed wool . The main strength of Lord Tywin’s host would ride this day, he told them as they broke their fast on oatcakes .
Lord Tywin Lannister took his leave of Harrenhal . Arya watched from an arched window halfway up the Wailing Tower . His charger wore a blanket of enameled crimson scales and chamfron . Ser Kevan looked near as splendid .
Weese was sprawled across the cobbles, his throat a red ruin . His ugly spotted dog stood on his chest, lapping at the blood pulsing from his neck, and every so often ripping a mouthful of flesh out of the dead man’s face .
Ser Wendel Manderly gave a whoop of pleasure, but Catelyn nodded . She had met Rivers at the Twins, a baseborn son of Lord Walder Frey . He had been contemplating just that when he sent her away .
Martyn Rivers was a ruddy man with scant resemblance to his half brothers . Rivers broke his camp quickly and saddled up beside her . They set off again, near fifty strong now, flying beneath direwolf .
Ser Stafford's host had fallen back on Lannisport . The Young Wolf was paying the Lannisters back in kind for the devastation they'd inflicted on the riverlands .
Catelyn remembered the day when her boys found the pups in the late summer snows . There had been five, three male and two female for Ned’s bastard son Jon Snow . No common wolves, she thought .
Catelyn admits she swore a vow three times . She had been forced to clothe herself in odd bits of Ser Wendel's spare garb . "I am not afraid of his guards. I am as good as any of them. I should never have fled," Brienne says .
Jaime Lannister murdered the rightful king, after Robert killed his lawful heir on the Trident . “A good king does care.” “He is gone, Brienne,” she said, as gently as she could .
Brienne, I have taken many wellborn ladies into my service over the years, but never one like you, Catelyn thought . “No, but you have courage. And I think, when the time comes, you will not hold me back from Stannis.” The tall girl knelt awkwardly, unsheathed Renly’s longsword, and laid it at her feet .
Catelyn spied a second camp strung out along the bank north of the Tumblestone . They were all her father’s bannermen, lords of the Trident . Most had left Riverrun before she had, to defend their own lands .
Catelyn saw dead men hanging from the battlements, slumped at the ends of long ropes with hempen nooses tight around their necks . The crows had been at them, but their crimson cloaks still showed bright against the sandstone walls . Edmure rode out from the castle to meet her, surrounded by three of her father’s sworn men .
Stannis offers his allegiance to any king will break the siege . He fears for the boy, he says . “I swear it on my sword, by the gods old and new.”
"Brienne, I am honored to acquaint you with my brother Ser Edmure Tully, heir to Riverrun. His steward Utherydes Wayn. Ser Robin Ryger and Ser Desmond Grell. The others echoed him. The girl flushed, embarrassed even at this commonplace courtesy.
“They pledged me their peace and surrendered their weapons, so I allowed them freedom of the castle.” Edmure pointed up. “That big brute killed two guards with naught but those ham hands of his, caught them by the throats and smashed their skulls together while that skinny lad beside him was opening Lannister’s cell with a bit of wire, gods curse him. The Imp’s work, Catelyn suspected; it stank of the same sort of cu
Jaime got hold of a sword, slew Poul Pemford and Ser Desmond’s squire Myles, and wounded Delp so badly that Maester Vyman fears he’ll soon die as well . I hanged those beside the four who freed him, and threw the rest in the dungeons . “You say he brought terms?” “You’ll like them no more than I did, I promise.” “Can we hope for no help
Catelyn jerked her reins hard to avoid him, glancing about in dismay . Hundreds of smallfolk had been admitted to the castle, and allowed to erect crude shelters against the walls .
Catelyn was sorry she had wounded him, but the matter was too important for her to concern herself with his pride . "If all my strength is marshaled, I should have eight thousand foot and three thousand horse," Edmure said .
Lord Tywin defeated Roose Bolton on the Green Fork, but failed to pursue . “He has,” Edmure said stubbornly . The Freys fought bravely in the Whispering Wood .
Lord Tywin's levies will defend the fords of Red Fork against his crossing . If he attacks across the river, he’ll end as Rhaegar did when he tried to cross the Trident . Catelyn found herself wishing that Robb had not taken her uncle Brynden west with him .
Gods be good, he talks as if we were not married yet . Lord Hoster cried as a spasm of pain washed over him .
Lord Hoster sucked at the thick white potion as eager as a babe at the breast . Catelyn could see peace settle over him once more . Hoster Tully had been a strong man, and proud .
Catelyn knew at once why they were here . They laid him out on a trestle table and covered him with a banner . "Only the bones remain, my lady." "I would look on him," she repeated . The sisters had dressed the bones in Ned’s surcoat .
“I am grateful for your service, my lady. It was his doing.” One day I will thank them all. Lord Eddard was a Stark, and his bones must be laid to rest beneath Winterfell.” They will make a statue of him, a stone likeness that will sit in the dark with a direwolf at his feet and a sword across his knees. “Make certain the sisters have fresh horses, and aught else they need for the journey,” Catelyn said.
Dany's silver collar was chafing against her throat . She unfastened it and flung it aside . The Pureborn were notorious for offering poisoned wine to those they thought dangerous . They had not given Dany so much as a cup of water .
The Pureborn heard her pleas from the great wooden seats of their ancestors, rising in curved tiers from a marble floor to a high-domed ceiling painted with scenes of Qarth’s vanished glory . But the men who sat in them seemed so listless and world-weary that they might have been asleep . They came because they were bored, and the dragon on my shoulder interested them more than I did . “Tell me what they said to sadden the queen of
The Sorrowful Men were an ancient sacred guild of assassins, so named because they always whispered, “I am so sorry” to their victims before they killed them . The Qartheen were nothing if not polite .
Trader captains brought lace from Myr, chests of saffron from Yi Ti, amber and dragonglass out of Asshai . Pipers piped for her, tumblers tumbled, and jugglers juggled . A pair of Jogos Nhai presented her with one of their striped zorses .
I have become the most splendid beggar in the world . She hated it, as her brother must have . He must have known how they mocked him . Part of her would have liked nothing more than to lead her people back to Vaes Tolorro, and make the dead city bloom .
Xaro Xhoan Daxos is a man of gold, she thought, and gold will buy me all the ships and swords I need . The longer we talk, the fewer ships I am likely to have. I grow poorer by the instant .
A single perfect tear ran down the cheek of Xaro Xhoan Daxos . The justice of your cause means naught to the common men of Qarth . “I will pay them to care.” “With what coin, sweet star of my heaven?” she said.
"I would not need to seek sorcerous help if my friend Xaro Xhoan Daxos would give me what I ask" "I have given you my home and heart, do they mean nothing to you?" Dany said . "Did I not give you an army, sweetest of women? A thousand knights, each in shining armor"
A firemage had conjured a ladder in the air, a crackling orange ladder of swirling flame that rose unsupported from the floor of the bazaar . She saw sailors off trading ships, merchants come by caravan, dusty men out of the red waste, wandering soldiers, craftsmen, slavers . Jhogo slid one hand about her waist and leaned close .
Jhogo brushed Quaithe’s fingers away with the handle of his whip . When the fiery ladder stood forty feet high, the mage leapt forward and began to climb it .
Dany’s wrist still tingled where Quaithe had touched her . “To go north, you must journey south. To reach the west, you have to go east. To go forward you must go back, and to touch the light you must pass beneath the shadow.” “It is known,” Aggo agreed.
Dany stripped off her finery and donned a loose robe of purple silk . She chopped up a snake and charred the pieces over a brazier . They must weigh twice what they had in Vaes Tolorro . And they must be trained as well, or they will lay my kingdom waste .
"I would be glad to leave this city, if truth be told," she told Ser Jorah . "If you go any farther east I may never find my way home to Westeros," she reminded him . The Qartheen have a curious wedding custom, my queen .
Gluttons are greedy men as a rule, and magisters are devious . "I know that he gave me my dragon eggs," he snorted . “I know Illyrio better than you think. He is rich,” she said . „I am their rightful queen,” Dany protested .
The name Targaryen still frightens them, so much so that they sent a man to murder you when they heard you were with child . Rhaegal and Viserion were fighting over a scrap of meat, buffeting each other with their wings as smoke hissed from their nostrils . I am afraid, she realized, but I must be brave .
Doran Martell had done no more than call his banners . The Martells would not commit to actual battle unless Dorne itself was attacked . If a single ship, we are to run them off or destroy them. If there are more, the Bold Wind will cleave to the Seaswift .
A small ship with big sails, she was faster than any warship afloat . He was sending Ser Arys Oakheart as her sworn shield, and had engaged the Braavosi to bring her the rest of the way to Sunspear . Even Lord Stannis would hesitate to wake the anger of the greatest and most powerful of the Free Cities .
Cersei ignored him, preferring to lavish her smiles on their cousin . He watched her charming Lancel with eyes as green as the rope of emeralds around her slim white throat, and smiled a small sly smile to himself .
The Kettleblacks would charm her, take her coin, and promise her anything she asked . Cersei had managed to buy herself three hollow drums; they would make all the fierce booming sounds she required . Horns blew fanfares as Lionstar and Lady Lyanna pushed out from shore .
Bold Wind unshipped her oars and glided downstream in the wake of Seaswift . Tyrion had chosen the ships with care, avoiding any whose captains might be of doubtful loyalty, according to Varys . There had been no word from Petyr Baelish since he had ridden off for Bitterbridge .
Ser Jacelyn Bywater went in front, heading a wedge of mounted lancers in black ringmail and golden cloaks . Behind him came Ser Aron Santagar and Ser Balon Swann, bearing the king’s banners, the lion of Lannister and crowned stag of Baratheon.
The Lannisters moved through a sea of ragged men and hungry women . Just ahead of him, Cersei was laughing at something Lancel had said . It was blue and swollen, grotesque, but the real horror was the mother’s eyes . The king fumbled in his purse, and flung the woman a silver stag .
Tyrion never saw who threw the dung . He only heard Sansa’s gasp and Joffrey’s bellowed curse . Tyrion screamed. He pushed his fingers into his hair . “A hundred golden dragons to the man who gives him up.” “He was up there!” he shouted .
A tumult of sound drowned his last words, a rolling thunder of rage and fear and hatred that engulfed them from all sides . “Bastard!” someone screamed at Joffrey, “bastard monster.” Other voices flung calls of “Whore” and “Brotherfucker” at the queen . Tyrion was pelted with shouts of “Freak,” “Robb, King Robb, the Young Wolf” and even
Tyrion drove into the gap hard on the king’s hooves . A jagged rock flew past his head as he rode, and a rotten cabbage exploded against Ser Mandon’s shield . The Hound had vanished behind, though his riderless horse galloped beside them .
Ser Meryn and Ser Boros rode in helmetless, his mount lathered and bleeding at the mouth . Lord Gyles stammered out a tale of seeing the High Septon spilled from his litter . Tyrion was dimly aware of a maester asking if he was injured .
Ser Mandon Moore pulled him off as Joffrey howled, and then Bronn was there to take him in hand . “Ser Preston is not returned,” Ser Boros Blount reported, “nor Aron Santagar.” “Nor Wet Nurse,” said Ser Horas Redwyne .
Ser Boros went purple with rage. “You would call me ugly, you?” He started to raise the bloody sword still clutched in his mailed fist . “Boros, you’ll do as you’re bid, or we’ll find someone else to wear that cloak,” Joffrey shouted . Sandor Clegane cantered briskly through the gates astride Sansa’s chestnut courser .
Flea Bottom's afire, Tyrion was inutterably weary, but there was no time for despair . The Others take me, of course he hates fire, he’s tasted it too well .
“Our place is beside the king,” Ser Meryn said, complacent . “Your place is where my brother says it is,” Cersei reared up like a viper .
Ser Jacelyn Bywater delivered the butcher’s bill as he was supping on a cold capon and brown bread in the gloom of his solar . When his servants came to light his candles and start a fire in the hearth, Tyrion had roared at them and sent them running . Ser Preston’s corpse had been overlooked at first; the gold cloaks had been searching for a knight in white armor .
Tyrek was still missing, as was the High Septon’s crystal crown . There are good men and loyal among the new recruits, but also more brutes, sots, cravens, and traitors than you’d care to know .
Many still remember how your lord father sacked the city when Aerys opened the gates to him . They whisper that the gods are punishing us for the sins of your House . Some talk openly of how much better things were when Robert was king .
The queen has never been known as a friend to the commons, nor is Lord Varys called the Spider out of love . They say that you’ve filled the city with swaggering sellswords and unwashed savages, brutes who take what they want and follow no laws but their own . You exiled Janos Slynt because you found him too bluff and honest for your liking . Some even claim that you mean to seize the
A chill crept down Tyrion’s spine as he realized what the sellsword was hinting at . There was only one way Tommen would become king. No, he could not even think it .
Ser Cortnay Penrose sat a sorrel stallion, his standard-bearer a dapple grey . Above them flapped Baratheon’s crowned stag and the crossed quills of Penrose, white on a russet field . Even Davos wore mail, though he could not have said why . It made him feel cumbered and foolish, and he wondered once more why he was here .
Davos was a good boy, but wore the flaming heart proudly on his doublet . It is only to be expected that he would take the king’s god . He had almost forgotten how high and thick the walls loomed up close .
Lord Florent was the first of Renly’s bannermen to declare for Stannis . The queen’s men were more numerous and powerful than ever . Ser Cortnay Penrose ignored him, preferring to address him .
Ser Cortnay clenched his jaw and said nothing . "May the Others bugger your Lord of Light," Lord Alester Florent cleared his throat .
Bryce Caron walked his horse forward a few paces, his long rainbow-striped cloak twisting in the wind off the bay . “No man here is a turncloak, ser. My fealty belongs to Storm’s End, and King Stannis is its rightful lord,” Ser Cortnay said .
“I would scarcely be the first maid maddened to murder by a man who spurned her.” “It was Brienne,” insisted Lord Caron. “Ser Emmon Cuy swore as much before he died. You have my oath on that, Ser Cortnay.” He turned his scorn on Guyard Morrigen .
Ser Cortnay gave a pull on his reins and rode back toward his camp . "I have twenty thousand men. You are besieged by land and sea. Why would I choose single combat when my eventual victory is certain?" asked Stannis .
Ser Jon Fossoway said, “I would gladly take this challenge myself, though I’m not half the swordsman Lord Caron is, or Ser Guyard” Melisandre left no notable knights at Storm’s End . Stannis raked them all with a look. “You chatter like magpies, and with less sense. I will have quiet.” He spurred his horse away from his followers.
“No doubt he mistook me for Robert.” “More like he was desperate. What other hope does he have?” “None. The castle will fall. But how to do it quickly?” Stannis brooded on that for a moment . “Lord Alester urges me to bring old Lord Penrose here. Ser Cortnay will watch his father die before he would ever betray his trust.” “I think that would be ill done, my liege
A moon ago they were Renly’s men. This morning they are yours. Whose will they be on the morrow?” And Stannis laughed . “I see you know him well, Your Grace,” the red woman said .
“A good act does not wash out the bad, nor a bad act the good.” Stannis glanced behind at Lord Florent and others . Good men and true will fight for Joffrey, wrongly believing him the true king. A northman might even say the same of Robb Stark. But these lords who flocked to my brother’s banners knew him for a usurper .
Renly threw it in his teeth when we met to parley. You would need to be as mad as Patchface to believe such a thing . In many places it had come before them, poisoning the well for their own true tale .
Ser Davos Seaworth could feel his phantom fingertips start to itch . The king gave a shake of his head, like a dog shaking a rabbit to snap its neck . "Only Renly could vex me so with a piece of fruit," Stannis said .
Davos and Melisandre rode to the king’s pavilion . They bowed their heads and dispersed, while Melisundre walked . Stannis took off his crown and handed it to Devan .
Lord Caron and others who like to kick will want to take up Ser Cortnay’s gauntlet and hazard all upon a single combat . A siege would take too long, single combat is too chancy, and an assault would cost thousands of lives with no certainty of success . It is said about the camp that Lord Tywin Lannister rushes west to rescue Lannisport .
Aye, and quickly. Doran Martell has called his banners and fortified the mountain passes . He fear that Ser Loras Tyrell reached Bitterbridge before my envoys, but they have not returned .
Ser Cortnay Penrose seemed hale and hearty to me . Melisandre has seen it in the flames of the future. He will not die in knightly combat, needless say .
Melisandre saw another day in her flames as well as a morrow where Renly rode out of the south in his green armor to smash my host beneath the walls of King’s Landing . “Why not that? If she saw two futures, well .
Davos was a knight now, no longer a smuggler, and he had never been an assassin . But when he opened his mouth, the words would not come . This was Stannis, his just lord, to whom he owed all he was .
A thousand flickering campfires burned around the castle, as the fires of the Tyrells and Redwynes had sixteen years before . The last time it was life I brought to Storm’s End, shaped to look like onions . This time it is death, in the shape of Melisandre of Asshai .
Ser Davos Seaworth pushed on the tiller, and the small boat threw up a curl of black water as she turned . The endless crash of wave on rock was the only sound that ever penetrated the massive seaward walls of Storm’s End .
“You speak of men and onions,” Davos said to Melisandre . “I am a knight of sorts myself, sweet ser. A champion of light and life.” “Yet you mean to kill a man tonight,” he said .
Storm’s End is an old place. There are spells woven into the stones. Dark walls that no shadow can pass—ancient, forgotten, yet still in place.” Davos felt his flesh prickling . Shadows are the servants of light, the children of fire .
Melisandre had thrown back her cowl and shrugged out of the smothering robe . Her eyes were hot coals, and the sweat that dappled her skin seemed to glow with a light of its own . The portcullis was somewhere ahead, Davos knew .
Davos saw the crown of the child’s head push its way out of her . Two arms wriggled free, grasping, black fingers coiling around Melisandre’s straining thighs, pushing, until the whole of the shadow slid out into the world . He had only an instant to look at it before it was gone . Jon pushed himself onto an elbow, his hand reaching for Longclaw by force of habit as the camp began to stir .
Jon Snow fed a few sticks to the fire, buckled on his swordbelt, pulled on his boots, shook the dirt and dew from the cloak, and fastened it around his shoulders . The flames blazed up beside him, welcome heat beating against his face as he dressed . He could hear the Lord Commander moving inside the tent .
The Old Bear was too stubborn to retreat, but neither would he rush headlong up the Milkwater, seeking battle . In the end, nothing had been decided but to wait a few days for the men from the Shadow Tower, and talk again if they did not appear . Together they woke Hake, who received the Lord Commander’s orders with a stream of curses .
Jon knew Qhorin Halfhand the instant he saw him, though they had never met . The big ranger was half a legend in the Watch; a man of slow words and swift action . His hair fell from beneath his helm in a heavy braid touched with hoarfrost . Only thumb and forefinger remained on the hand that held the reins .
Jon Snow had to hurry his steps to keep up with Qhorin’s strides . They found Dolorous Edd frying a rasher of bacon and boiling a dozen eggs in a kettle over the Old Bear’s cookfire .
Edd stirred the kettle and added a pinch more nutmeg . Restless, Jon squatted by the fire and poked at it with a stick . Qhorin Halfhand was one of the bloodiest of the wildling raiders .
Jon slid his new dagger from its sheath and studied flames as they played against the shiny black glass . He had fashioned the wooden hilt himself, and wound hempen twine around it to make a grip . The dragonglass blade was sharper than steel, albeit far more brittle .
Edd cut three thick slices off a stale round of oat bread, stacked them on a wooden platter, covered them with bacon and bacon drippings, and filled a bowl with hard-cooked eggs . Qhorin was seated cross-legged on the floor, his spine as straight as a spear . “True or false, the Wall must be warned,” the Old Bear said .
The Watch had once manned seventeen castles along the hundred leagues of the Wall, but they had been abandoned one by one as the brotherhood dwindled . Only three were now garrisoned, a fact that Mance Rayder knew as well as they did . The Wall itself is a formidable obstacle. Undefended, it cannot stop them, yet it will delay them .
Mormont’s raven lifted its head and screamed. “Some power. What it is, our captive could not say. He was questioned perhaps too sharply, and died with much unsaid. I am loath to risk more men.” “We can only die. Why else do we don these black cloaks, but to die in defense of the realm?” Lord Commander Mormont sighed deep in his chest.
“Someone will come down out of the Frostfangs, my lord,” the ranger said . “Belike we shall all die, then. Our dying will buy time for our brothers on the Wall.” “Die, die, die,” the raven muttered . The Old Bear sat slumped and silent, as if the burden of speech had grown too heavy for him to bear .
TYRION The queen intends to send Prince Tommen away.” They knelt alone in the hushed dimness of the sept, surrounded by shadows and flickering candles . “Is it the mob she fears? Or me?” “Both,” said Lancel. “Will you grant me the boon I asked of you?” “Perhaps.” Tyrion had known nothing of this ploy .
Lord Gyles will depart for his castle in a day or two, with a dozen men-at-arms, some servants, and my nephew . “You want the boy brought back, is that it?” “No. I want him taken on to the castle.” “My sister will send one of the Kingsguard with the prince.”
Tyrion put his heels into his horse and clattered down Shadowblack Lane . The council had extended his curfew; it was death to be taken on the streets . Varys said the people cursed him for it .
Tyrion flew through the moonlight streets, clattering over cobbles, darting down narrow alleys and up twisty wynds, racing to his love . He knelt, balding and kettle-bellied, murmuring, “An honor, an honor.” “M’lord.” He liked that smile, the quick unthinking way it came to her pretty face . The colors favored her dark hair and the smooth cream of her skin .
Symon Silver Tongue seemed to have turned to lead . “My singer may never sing again now,” she teased. “You’ve scared the voice from him” She lit a scented candle and knelt to pull off his boots. “Would that I could come every night,” Shae said .
A half-moon silvered the leaves of the fruit trees and shone on the surface of the stone bathing pond . Tyrion seated himself beside the water, somewhere off to his right a cricket was chirping, a curiously homey sound . “Lord Varys has come to see you,” Shae announced. “Most men would be deceived,” Tyrion said .
Storm’s End has opened its gates to Stannis Baratheon . When Shae returned with the wine, he took one sip and flung the cup away to explode against the side of the house . Varys smiled, showing a mouth full of rotted teeth .
“They like my gold well enough, but will they die for it?” Tyrion said . “Though I would be your lady, m’lord. I’d dress in all the beautiful things you gave me, in satin and samite and cloth-of-gold,” Tyrion sighed .
“You have me.” Shae kissed him, her arms sliding around his neck as she pressed her body to his . The kiss aroused him, but this time Tyrion disentangled himself . “M’lord, I’d poison you. Every man who’s tasted my cooking has told me what a good whore I am.” “The Red Keep has sufficient cooks. Butchers and bakers too. You’d need to pose as a scullion.” “M
The Red Keep is not safe either, but it’s a deal safer than here. To me, you’re the most precious thing within these walls . “My father made me his kitchen wench,” she said, her mouth twisting. “Why can’t you keep me in your tower?” Shae pouted .
“That was ill done,” Shae said. “On both our parts. Shae, you do not understand.” He could not say if she believed him . “My hands won’t be soft if I clean ovens and scrape plates all day.” “More than ever” he said .
Tyrion Lannister mistrusted the maesters . The gods only knew who they were conspiring with, or what they had mixed in those potions they gave you . “I need to bring Shae into the castle without Cersei becoming aware” .
A lady’s bedmaid wore finer garb than a scullion, and often even a jewel or two . Lollys is timid and trusting, and Cersei thought Lady Tanda tedious and hysterical .
“I might be able to slip the child into your bedchamber unseen.” Tyrion glanced up at the eunuch in his smelly mummer’s garb . “I trust you like one of my own blood, in truth. Now tell me how Cortnay Penrose died.” “Threw himself? No, I will not believe that!” Tyrion asked .
Ser Cortnay had challenged Lord Stannis to single combat on the morning he died . “My lord, you once asked me how it was that I was cut.” “You did not want to talk of it.” “Nor do I, but . .” This pause was longer than the one before and when Varys spoke again his voice was different somehow .
The mummers had sailed by the time he was done with me . When I asked him what I should do now, he answered that he supposed I should die . To spite him, I resolved to live. I begged, I stole, and I sold what parts of my body still remained to me. I dream of that night, my lord. Not of the sorcerer, nor his blade, nor even the way my manhood shriveled as it burned .
“On that we agree.” Tyrion smiled . “Regardless of how Ser Cortnay died, well, we know Stannis hired sellsails from the Free Cities.” “I used to dream that one day I’d be rich enough to send a Faceless Man after my sweet sister.” “Any chance we might convince the Dornishmen to descend on the Marches?” asked Tyrion. “A pity. Well, the threat may serve to keep the Marcher lords close to
Ser Edmure Tully led his men out from Riverrun with lances raised and banners streaming . Catelyn had ordered garments sewn to her measure, handsome gowns to suit her birth and sex . She preferred to dress in oddments of mail and boiled leather, a swordbelt .
Catelyn had been son and daughter to Lord Hoster until Edmure was born . Then her mother had died and her father had told her that she must be the lady of Riverrun now, and she had done that too . I gave Brandon my favor to wear, and never comforted Petyr once after he was wounded .
Septon Osmynd, long dead, sat by the brewhouse amidst a circle of listeners, his deep voice ringing as he sang of Lord Deremond at the Bloody Meadow . And there he stood with sword in hand, the last of Darry’s ten . Catelyn wondered if Rymund was the answer.
“You don’t feel so helpless when you fight. You have a sword and a horse, sometimes an axe.” “Knights die in battle,” Catelyn reminded her . “Children are a battle of a different sort.” Brienne started across the yard .
Ser Cortnay Penrose was dead, the man wrote, and Storm’s End had opened its gate to Stannis Baratheon . The castle garrison had sworn their swords to his cause, one and all, and no man of them had suffered harm . Catelyn read the letter again after the maester was gone .
Arya was the only one to show much of Ned in her features . Does she grieve for Ned as I do? Does she hate him for leaving her bed for mine? Catelyn had no clue who or where his mother might be .
The Lannisters had ridden out of the southeast beneath a blaze of banners, Ser Desmond told her when she ascended to the battlements to join him . “The main strength of Lord Tywin’s host is well to the south. We are in no danger here,” Catelyn said.
A banner vanished suddenly as its bearer was swept under . Catelyn heard the fainter clash of steel on steel . The men on the walls shouted taunts after them, though they were already too far off .
A small victory, Catelyn thought when the fighting had ended and the surviving foemen had melted back into the night . She asked Brienne for her thoughts. "That was the brush of Lord Tywin’s fingertip, my lady," the girl said.
Ser Flement Brax had tried to force a crossing at a different ford six leagues to the south . This time the Lannisters shortened their lances and advanced across the river behind on foot . The Mallister bowmen had rained high arcing shots down over their shields, while the scorpions Edmure had mounted on the riverbank .
Ser Cleos was pleased to see how unsteady he was. “Tell me,” she commanded, and he did . “Before all the court, my lady. And the gods as well. I said as much to Ser Edmure, but he told me it was not possible, that His Grace Robb would never consent.” “He told you true.” She could not even say that Robb was wrong. The Kingslayer, alive and free, was as dangerous as any man in the realm
Cersei was reluctant to parade her in open court for fear of what she might say or do . They might have her locked safely out of sight, or they might have killed her . Catelyn thought back to that terrible trek through the Mountains of the Moon . Tyrion Lannister had somehow seduced that sellsword from his own service .
Rymund the Rhymer sang through all the courses, sparing her the need to talk . He closed with the song he had written about Robb’s victory at Oxcross . By the end, half of the hall was howling along with him, even Desmond Grell .
The tall, ungainly girl left the hall with long strides, almost unnoticed amidst the revelry . It was three days later when the hammer blow that Brienne had foretold fell . Catelyn was sitting with her father when Edmure’s messenger arrived . Lord Tywin had tried to force a crossing at a dozen different fords .
Ser Desmond Grell listened to girlish laughter, and the excited chatter of the green boys her brother had left her for a garrison . In her father’s solar she found a heavy leatherbound book of maps and opened it to the riverlands . By now they had likely reached the headwaters of the Blackwater Rush .
The sound was the faintest of clinks, a scraping of steel over stone . He lifted his head from his paws, listening, sniffing at the night . The evening’s rain had woken a hundred sleeping smells and made them strong again .
A gate loomed up, a black iron snake coiled tight about bar and post . When he crashed against it, the gate shuddered and the snake clanked and slithered and held . Through the bars he could look down the long stone burrow that ran between the walls to the stony field beyond, but no more .
He whirled and bounded back into the trees, wet leaves rustling beneath his paws, branches whipping at him as he rushed past . They plunged under the heart tree and around the cold pool, through the blackberry bushes, under a tangle of oaks and ash and hawthorn scrub, to the far side of the wood . Sentinel, came the thought. He remembered how it was to climb it then . The needles everywhere, scratching
He sprang away from the wall, loped off beneath the trees, the shadows of branch and leaf dappling his grey fur . His feet flew, kicking up wet leaves and pine needles, and for a little time he was a hunter and an antlered stag was fleeing before him . The smell of fear made his heart thunder and slaver ran from his jaws and he reached the falling tree in stride and threw himself up the
Torrhen’s Square was under attack by some monstrous war chief named Dagmer Cleftjaw . Old Nan said he couldn’t be killed, that once a foe cut his head in two with an axe, but dagmer was so fierce he’d just pushed the halves back together and held them until they healed up .
Winterfell slept. “Hodor!” he shouted down, as loud as he could . “Osha! Meera, Jojen, anyone!” Bran cupped his hands around his mouth . He wore a leather jerkin sewn with overlapping iron disks, and carried a dirk in one hand and an axe strapped to his back .
“I won’t,” said Bran. “We’ll fight you and throw you out. I never yielded, you can’t make me say I did.” He rose and went to the door . “Someone will come dress you and carry you to the Great Hall. Think carefully on what you want to say.” The waiting made Bran feel even more helpless than before .
The maester was fastening the cloak with his favorite wolf’s-head clasp of silver and jet . He bore the boy easily enough, though he looked none too happy with the task . The four-year-old was cranky at being woken .
Theon Greyjoy was seated in the high seat of the Starks . He wore a black surcoat emblazoned with the golden kraken of his House . His hands rested on the wolves’ heads carved at the ends of the wide stone arms .
Theon vacated the high seat. “Bring the prince here, Lorren.” The black-bearded man dumped Bran onto the stone as if he were a sack of oats . Gage and Osha arrived from the kitchens, spotted with flour from making the morning bread .
Theon raised his hands for quiet. “You all know me—” “Aye, we know you for a sack of steaming dung!” shouted Mikken, before the bald man drove the butt of his spear into his gut, then smashed him across the face with the shaft . Theon ignored the outburst .
"I serve the Starks, not some treasonous squid of—aah." The butt of the spear smashed him face first into the stone floor . The bald man drove the point of his spear into the back of Mikken’s neck . A woman screamed, and Meera wrapped her arms around Rickon .
“You’re cleverer than you smell, but I could not suffer that stench.” “A man of rare good sense.” Theon smiled. “Bend the knee.” One of the ironmen handed Reek a sword, and he laid it at Theon’s feet and swore obedience to House Greyjoy and King Balon . “I need fighters,” Theon declared, “not kitchen sluts.” “I’ve had a bellyful of it. Put a
Hot Pie was kneading bread, his arms floured up to his elbows . "I need a whole tray. Ser Amory is partial to them." Hot Pie looked around nervously . Even in the black of night, the kitchens were never still .
The gates of Harrenhal had not been opened since the morning Lord Tywin had marched with his host . “I’m making the morning bread,” Hot Pie complained. “Anyhow I don’t like it when it’s dark, I told you.” “No.” She filched one anyway, and ate it on her way out .
Arya was thinking how long it had been since she’d had a slice off a pork roast when she saw the first of the prisoners . A line of ox carts were rumbling under the portcullis . The riders escorting the carts spoke in a babble of queer tongues .
Ser Amory Lorch had a thick, slobbery voice, as if his tongue was too big for his mouth . When he passed near a torch she saw his device was a silver fist, not a lion . Arya tried to judge how many prisoners there were, but lost count before she got to fifty .
Rooth Bolton thought to croth the river, but my Brafe Companions cut his van to pieceth . Thith ith their lord commander, Glover, and the one behind ith Ther Aenyth Frey . Arya did not think he was pleased. Everyone in the castle knew that he and Vargo Hoat hated each other .
Away from the gates and the stables, the great castle was largely deserted . A swirling wind gusted, drawing a high shivery scream from the cracks in the Wailing Tower . Sometimes the stones seemed to drink up noise, shrouding the yards in a blanket of silence .
Arya slithered through the window and leapt down to the floor beside him . “You should be abed, girl.” The breastplate hissed like a cat as he dipped it in the cold water .
Gendry turned the breastplate with the tongs to look at it closely . “Well, you can’t get them out, no more’n you could save Lommy.” “Winterfell,” she said at once. “Why should I wager my feet for the chance to sweat in Winterfell in place of Harrenhal? You know old Ben Blackthumb?
Arya’s hands curled into helpless fists, or else she would have started hitting him . He was the one who got her caught at the village . She thought of the little boy who’d been hit in the face with the mace .
Arya told herself every night when she whispered her names . So long as she could kill with a whisper, she would only be a mouse again . She liked the sharp smell of pines and sentinels, the feel of grass and dirt between her toes, and the sound the wind made in the leaves .
Ser Ilyn and Ser Meryn and the Hound were only leaves, but she killed them all as well, slashing them to wet green ribbons . When her arm grew weary, she sat with her legs over a high limb to catch her breath in the cool dark air, listening to the squeak of bats as they hunted . It looks just like the one in Winterfell from here .
“You should have saved him,” she scolded the tree . “Gods are not mocked, girl.” The voice started her. She leapt to her feet and drew her wooden sword . Arya lowered the splintery point toward the ground .
“The name .. can I name anyone? And you’ll kill him?” Jaqen H’ghar replied . “A man’s sire is long dead, but did you know his name, he would die at your command.” “Swear it,” Arya said. “By all the gods of sea and air, and even him of fire, I swear it.” He has sworn .
“You’re not my friend. A friend would help me.” Jaqen’s smile came and went . “A girl might . name another name then, if a friend did help?” She said. “Now?” She had never thought he would act so quickly . Vargo Hoat’s arrival had thrown off all the routines .
Hot Pie was pulling his loaves from ovens when she burst into the kitchen . They woke the cooks to feed Vargo Hoat and his Bloody Mummers . “My lord wants broth,” the chief cook asked when he saw her .
Hot Pie was stirring the kettles with a wooden spoon when Arya returned to the kitchens . She grabbed up a second spoon and started to help . He wore his iron helmet, with the nasal that half hid his missing nose .
Biter grabbed a handful of half-charred rabbit right off the spit . He tore into it with his pointed teeth while honey dripped between his fingers . Arya and Jaqen wrestled one between them, Rorge carried one by himself .
Ser Amory’s guards sat around a scarred wooden table, talking and playing at tiles . Heavy iron bars separated them from where the captives were crowded together in the dark . Arya counted eight guards. They smelled the broth as well .
Arya pressed back against the wall as Rorge began to cut throats . Only one of the guards managed to get a blade out . He drew his own sword, drove the man back into a corner with a flurry of blows, and killed him .
The Lorathi must have seen it on her face . "A girl is greedy," Arya chewed her lip. "The debt is paid." "A god has his due. And now a man must die." A strange smile touched the lips of Jaqen H’ghar.
Jaqen passed a hand down his face from forehead to chin, and where it went he changed . His cheeks grew fuller, his eyes closer; his nose hooked, a scar appeared on his right cheek where no scar had been before . He shook his head, his long straight hair, half red and half white, dissolved away to reveal a cap of tight black curls .
"Valar morghulis, Arya Stark. Say it again," he said . She whispered her names to her pillow, wondering what it meant . Pinkeye and the others were back, all but one boy who’d been killed in the fighting .
Shagwell the Fool hacked the heads off two dead knights and pranced about the castle swinging them by the hair and making them talk . “What did you die of?” one head asked. “Hot weasel soup,” replied the second . Arya was set to mopping up dried blood. No one said a word to her beyond the usual .
Robett Glover and Ser Aenys Frey led them over to Rorge and Biter . Arya was surprised to see them still here; somehow she would have expected them to vanish when Jaqen did . Shagwell pounced on her, dragging her out across the yard .
Four Brave Companions climbed to ramparts and hauled down the lion of Lannister and Ser Amory’s own black manticore . In their place, a page named Nan poured wine for Roose Bolton and Vargo Hoat . The bear is all in black, Arya thought. Like Yoren.
Xaro Xhoan Daxos called it the Palace of Dust . Even Drogon seemed disquieted by the sight of it . "Blood of my blood," said Ser Jorah Mormont .
Pyat Pree stepped out from under the trees . "My pleasure barge awaits, even now," Xaro Xhoan Daxos called out . “I have flutists who will soothe your troubled soul with sweet music, and a small girl whose tongue will make you sigh and melt."
Dany raised the glass to her lips . The first sip tasted like ink and spoiled meat, foul, but when she swallowed it seemed to come to life within her . She could feel tendrils spreading through her chest, like fingers of fire coiling around her heart, and on her tongue was a taste like honey and anise and cream .
Dany found herself in a stone anteroom with four doors, one on each wall . The fourth room was oval rather than square and walled in worm-eaten wood in place of stone . Dany chose the rightmost, and entered a long dim, high-ceilinged hall .
Savagely slaughtered, feasters lay strewn across overturned chairs and hacked trestle tables . Severed hands clutched bloody cups, roast fowl, heels of bread . Dany fled from him, but only as far as the next open door .
Drogon lashed against her back, urging her on, and Dany ran until she could run no more. Beyond loomed a cavernous stone hall, the largest she had ever seen . The skulls of dead dragons looked down from its walls .
Dany looked back behind her. The torches were going out, she realized with a start of fear. Perhaps twenty still burned. Thirty at most . There was no door on her right, and the steps went down, not up . Another torch went out as she stood pondering, and sounds grew faintly louder .
Pyat Pree stood outside in the grass beneath the trees . There was a door to her right, still closed . Dany hesitated. The Undying Ones will not wait forever .
Dany said a quick prayer, begging the Warrior for courage and the Dothraki horse god for strength . There were women among them, dressed in gowns of surpassing loveliness . A kingly man in rich robes rose when he saw her and smiled .
The great door was so heavy it took all of Dany’s strength to budge it, but finally it began to move . The wizards were beckoning her with voices sweeter than song. She ran from them, Drogon flying back down to her . There was no sound but the slow, deep beat of the rotting heart .
Dany listened to the silence. None of them are breathing, and they do not move, and those eyes see nothing. Could it be that the Undying Ones were dead?
the whispers became a swirling song . The voices were growing louder, she realized, and it seemed her heart was slowing, and even her breath .
Viserys screamed as the gold ran down his cheeks and filled his mouth . A tall lord with copper skin and silver-gold hair stood beneath the banner of a fiery stallion, a burning city behind him . Rubies flew like drops of blood from a dying prince, and he sank to his knees in the water and murmured a woman’s name .
Mirri Maz Duur shrieked in the flames, a dragon bursting from her brow . Behind a silver horse the bloody corpse of a naked man bounced and dragged . A white lion ran through grass taller than a man . Ten thousand slaves lifted bloodstained hands as she raced by on her silver .
Pyat Pree was gibbering in some unknown tongue and hopping from one foot to the other . When she looked behind her, she saw thin tendrils of smoke forcing their way through cracks in the ancient stone walls of the Palace of Dust, and rising from between the black tiles .
TYRION If you die stupidly, I’m going to feed your body to the goats,” Tyrion threatened as the first load of Stone Crows pushed off from the quay . Dawn was breaking, and pale ripples of light shimmered on the surface of the river . Timett had taken his Burned Men into the kingswood two days before .
Tyrion was going to feel naked without his clansmen . He still had Bronn’s hirelings, near eight hundred of them now, but sellswords were notoriously fickle . They’d drunk his wine, laughed at his jests, and called each other ser .
Lord Tywin Lannister had been fond of saying: 'One man on a wall was worth ten beneath it' Buyers flocked around the barrels and stalls to haggle over winkles, clams, and river pike . The price of fish was ten times what it had been before the war .
Hammers rang in the morning air as carpenters swarmed over the Mud Gate . He was less pleased by the clutter of ramshackle structures that had been allowed to grow up behind the quays, attaching themselves to the city walls like barnacles on the hull of a ship . As it was, Stannis would hardly need scaling ladders to storm the walls . “They’re sellswords, not septons,” said Bronn .
Robb Stark would have to turn north now. If he could not defend his own home and hearth, he was no sort of king at all. It meant reprieve for the west, for House Lannister, and yet . Tyrion had only the vaguest memory of Theon Greyjoy from his time with the Starks .
Tyrion Lannister put his heels into his horse and trotted through the Mud Gate . The gold cloaks had named them the Three Whores, because they’d be giving Lord Stannis such a lusty welcome . By the time he rid himself of them, bells were ringing and Tyrion knew he would be late .
Ser Balon Swann would serve with honor and courage . Ser Osmund Kettleblack looked formidable enough . He stood six feet and six inches, most of it sinew and muscle .
Ser Boros Blount had been escorting Tommen and Lord Gyles when Ser Jacelyn Bywater and his gold cloaks surprised them . He had yielded up his charge with an alacrity that would have enraged old Ser Barristan Selmy as much as it did Cersei . But now she replaces him with another man just as hollow . Lady Tanda stood several rows up, but she was not with her .
Stannis has vowed to burn the Great Sept of Baelor . If he’d offend the old gods, why should he spare the new? Tell them that any man who thinks to give aid to the usurper betrays the gods as well as his rightful king.
Hallyne the Pyromancer was waiting on him when Tyrion returned to his solar . There was an old letter warning him Storm’s End had fallen . He invited King Joffrey to send an envoy to the Iron Islands to fix the borders between their realms .
The Dragonpit atop the hill of Rhaenys had been abandoned for a century and a half . He supposed it was as good a place as any to store wildfire, and better than most, but it would have been nice if the late Lord Rossart had told someone . “Yes, yes, that’s so.” Hallyne mopped at his pale brow with the sleeve of his black-and-scarlet robe .
Hallyne fled so quickly that he almost bowled over Ser Jacelyn . Ironhand was mercifully direct, as ever . He’d returned from Rosby to deliver a fresh levy of spearmen recruited from Lord Gyles’ estates .
Tyrion sighed. “Who’s the traitor today?” The eunuch handed him a scroll . “I know some of these names. These are rich men. Traders, merchants, craftsmen. Why should they conspire against us?” Tyrion replied .
Wind sighed faintly against the shutters. Nothing else. Sleep, Greyjoy, he told himself. The castle is quiet, and you have guards posted . Kyra had worn him out. She had lived all of her eighteen years in the winter town without setting foot inside the walls .
Urzen stood outside his door, a sinewy man with a round shield slung over his back . “Go see what they’re doing, and come straight back.” The thought of the direwolves running loose gave him a queasy feeling . He remembered the day when the wildlings had attacked Bran . Summer and Grey Wind had torn them to pieces .
Theon cursed himself. He should have kept a guard on them, but he’d deemed it more important to have men walking the walls and protecting the gates than to nursemaid a couple of children, one a cripple . He’d even had two of his own men whipped bloody for raping that kennel girl, to show them he meant to be just. They still blame me for the rape, though.
Drennan lay half-naked in the gatehouse, in the snug room where the drawbridge was worked . His throat had been opened ear to ear, but his boots were scattered amidst the rushes . There was cheese on a small table near the door, beside an empty flagon .
Winterfell was encircled by two massive granite walls, with a wide moat between them . He had been forced to abandon the outer defenses and post his guards along the higher inner walls . Theon called for a torch and led them up the steps to the wallwalk .
Theon grabbed Urzen’s scrawny throat, tightened his fingers, and smiled . He shoved him away roughly, sending him stumbling back against a merlon . Some had not been given time to dress; others covered themselves with woolen blankets .
“Six.” Reek stepped up behind him, smelling of soap, his long hair moving in the wind . “Both Starks, that bog boy and his sister, the halfwit from the stables, and your wildling woman.” Osha. “Aggar says no horses are missing.” “Dancer is still in his stall?” Reek frowned.
Bran would be riding in his basket on Hodor’s back, no doubt . He had locked away every sword and axe in Winterfell, but no doubt some had been hidden from him . Theon walked back the way he had come, searching their faces for the least sign of guilt .
A number of Starks had ended thus, when the Boltons had bent their knees to Winterfell . Theon was the sigil of House Bolton, Theon knew; ages past, certain of their lords had gone so far as to cloak themselves in the skins of dead enemies . Murch, Gariss, Poxy Tym, you’ll come as well.
A boy stepped forward, no older than Bran . It took Theon a moment to remember him . "I’ve hunted lots of times before," Walder Frey said .
Eleven men, two boys, and a dozen dogs crossed the moat . Beyond the outer wall, the tracks were plain to read . The pawprints of the wolves, Hodor’s heavy tread, the shallower marks left by the feet of the two Reeds .
A pity Ned Stark had taken his daughters south; elsewise Theon could have tightened his grip on Winterfell by marrying one of them . Theon had not considered the mudmen at all, beyond eyeing Meera once or twice and wondering if she was still a maiden . "You may be right. We will spare them if we can," Theon pointed a finger .
Theon figured the fugitives were near at hand . He spurred Smiler and followed at a trot, but what he found was only the carcass of a young elk . The dogs sniffed round it eagerly, and one of the mastiffs buried his teeth in a haunch until Farlen shouted him off.
Theon dismounted and knelt beside the stream . He dipped a hand in it. “They won’t have stayed long in this,” Theon said . Wex drove his heel into the mud, and pivoted his foot this way and that .
Wex, the Frey boy, and Gynir Rednose rode on one side of the brook, Rednose and Walder Frey on the other, each with a pair of hounds . Theon kept an eye out for tracks, spoor, broken branches, any hint as to where the direwolves might have left the water . He spied the prints of deer, elk, and badger easily enough .
Farlen’s hounds seemed as frustrated as their masters, sniffing forlornly at trees and rocks and snapping irritably at each other . Theon dared not admit defeat . “We’ll return to the brook. Search again. This time we’ll go as far as we must.”
Mudmen are sneaks, they won’t fight like decent folks, they skulk and use poison arrows . You never see them, but they see you. Their houses move, even the castles like Greywater Watch . “My dogs would smell anything in them bushes. Be all over them before you could break wind, boy.” “Frogeaters don’t smell like men,” Frey said .
Theon Greyjoy was as jumpy as those rabbits he’d flushed earlier . They rode for miles, going slow and careful, dismounting to lead the horses over treacherous ground, letting the good-for-bear-bait hounds sniff at every bush . When I catch them, they’ll have all the swimming they can stomach .
"Might be them Starks never came this way. If I was them, I would have gone north and east, maybe. To the Umbers. Good Stark men, they are. But their lands are a long way. The boys will shelter someplace nearer. Might be I know where." Theon looked at him suspiciously .
Theon thrust his hand into the sack impatiently, groping amongst soft fur and rough scratchy wool . A sharp point pricked his skin, and his fingers closed around something cold and hard . He drew out a wolf’s-head brooch, silver and jet . “Mercy was for this morning,” said Theon .
“Fire is life up here,” said Qhorin Halfhand, “but it can be death as well.” They ate cold salt beef, hard bread, and harder cheese, and slept clothed and huddled beneath a pile of cloaks and furs . It made Jon remember cold nights long ago when he’d shared a bed with his brothers . “They’ll have a horn,” said Stonesnake .
Stonesnake was a short wiry man, near fifty and grey of beard but stronger than he seemed . By day the mountains were blue-grey, brushed with frost, but once the sun vanished behind the jagged peaks they turned black . Now the rising moon had limned them in white and silver . The black brothers moved through black shadows amidst black rocks .
Jon Snow had seen sunlight flashing on thin waterfalls as they plunged over sheer stone cliffs and a mountain meadow full of autumn wildflowers . He had peered down ravines so deep and black they seemed certain to end in some hell, and he had ridden his garron over a wind-eaten bridge of natural stone with nothing but sky to either side . Now it is our turn to pounce. He wished he could move as sure and silent as that shadowcat, and
Jon had not shaved since leaving the Fist of the First Men . The wind kicked up so fiercely that it was all he could do to hunch down and cling to the rock, praying he would not be blown off the mountain . There was nothing below but yawning blackness, nothing above but moon and stars .
Stonesnake had passed the rope around the smooth spike of rock he was waiting on, but as soon as Jon reached him he drove a spike deep into a crack in the stone with gentle taps . When the spike was secure, Stonesake secured the rope to it, and Jon started after him. Suck on the mountain’s teat, he reminded himself. There’s a good handhold, yes. Don’t look down. Look at the rock in front of you. There
The wildlings had built their watchfire in a shallow depression above the narrowest part of the pass, with a sheer drop below and rock behind to shelter them from the worst of the wind . That same windbreak allowed the black brothers to crawl within a few feet of them, creeping along on their bellies until they were looking down on the men they must kill . One was curled up tight and buried beneath a great mound of skins, feeding them twigs and branches . The third watched
Stonesnake touched his arm, pointed at the wildling with the horn . It felt queer, picking a man to kill. Half the days of his life had been spent with sword and shield . Jon slid Longclaw from its sheath and followed .
“You are my captive, Ygritte.” Give her half a chance . “I gave you my name.” “I’m Jon Snow.” Longclaw freed from the body of the man he’d killed. “My father was Lord Eddard Stark of Winterfell.”
Stonesnake knelt beside the man he’d slain, stripped him of cloak and boots and belt and vest . By then the ranger had the second body down to the skin and was dragging it by the arms . She looked plump as she crouched there, but most of that was layers of fur and wool and leather .
“Were you sent to watch for us?” Stonesnake asked her quietly . “What’s in the Frostfangs that your king could want? You can’t stay here, there’s no food.” She stared at the flames as if she could not hear him. “Do you know anything of my uncle, Benjen Stark?” Ygritte ignored him.
“I suppose it’s all in where you’re standing.” “Tell me,” Jon urged her . “Might be you won’t like it much.” “I’ll hear it all the same.” “Brave black crow,” she mocked. “A murderer, robber, and raper, is what you mean.”
The Stark in Winterfell wanted Bael’s head, but never could take him, and the taste o’ failure galled him . He vowed to teach the lord a lesson . So he scaled the Wall, skipped down the kingsroad, and walked into winterfell one winter’s night with harp in hand .
“This was Brandon the Daughterless,” Ygritte said sharply . “Go on.” “Lord Brandon had no other children. At his behest, the black crows flew forth from their castles in the hundreds, but nowhere could they find any sign o’ Bael or this maid . For most a year they searched till the lord lost heart and took to his bed . He followed the sound and found his daughter back in her bedchamber .
Dawn and Qhorin Halfhand arrived together. The black stones had turned to grey and the eastern sky had gone indigo when Stonesnake spied the rangers below, wending their way upward . Dawn woke his captive and held her by the arm as they descended to meet them . Ghost raced ahead at first scent of them, tugging his hand back and forth .
“The way before us is perilous enough, lad,” said Squire Dalbridge . “You are the blood of Winterfell and a man of the Night’s Watch.” He looked at them all helplessly . He led them up the steep twisting trail toward the pale pink glow of the sun where it broke through a mountain cleft .
Longclaw was not so long or heavy as his father’s Ice, but it was Valyrian steel all the same . He touched the edge of the blade to mark where the blow must fall, and Ygritte shivered . When the blow did not fall she turned her head to look at him .
Dontos swayed as he spoke, one hand on the trunk of a chestnut tree . A wine stain discolored the red-and-yellow motley of his tunic . The Imp told the queen that Stannis had better train his horses to eat ash, since he would find no blade of grass .
The Blackwater Rush was as empty as Sansa had ever seen it . The only ships to be seen were the king’s war galleys . They flew the red or green apples of House Fossoway, the turtle of Estermont, and the fox-and-flowers of Florent .
Sansa dug nails into her hand and could feel the fear in her tummy . They had hemmed her in and thrown filth at her and tried to pull her off her horse . The whole city was afraid. The smallfolk were hiding themselves behind closed shutters and barred doors .
Dontos chuckled. “My Jonquil’s a clever girl, isn’t she?” “Joffrey and his mother say I’m stupid.” “Let them. You’re safer that way,” Sansa said sharply. “Give your Florian a little kiss now. A kiss for luck.” It took all her strength not to weep . The drawbridge to Maegor’s Holdfast was unguarded .
Sansa crossed over the dry moat with its cruel iron spikes and made her way up the narrow turnpike stair . The smoke blotted out the stars and the thin crescent of moon, so the roof was dark and thick with shadows . From here she could see everything: the Red Keep’s tall towers and great cornerforts, the maze of city streets beyond, to south and west the river running black, the bay to the east, the columns of smoke and cinders, and
Sansa remembered the way they had howled, the feel of the blood running down her cheek from where the stone had struck her, and the garlic stink on the breath of the man who had tried to pull her from her horse . When his hand fell away, another hand shoved her back into her saddle . The Hound leapt at them, his sword a blur of steel that trailed a red mist as it swung . She made herself look at that face now, really look .
Lord Eddard Stark of Winterfell never killed a man.” “That was his duty. He never liked it.” “Is that what he told you?” Sandor Clegane laughed again . “Your father lied. Killing is the sweetest thing there is.” He drew his longsword .
Sansa is a half-wild, mean-tempered dog that bites any hand that tries to pet him . “Only cowards fight with fire.” “Lord Stannis is no coward.” “He’s not the man his brother was either.” “Fight. Kill. Die, maybe.” “Aren’t you afraid? The gods might send you down to some terrible hell for all the evil you’ve done.” He laughed .
She wept and told them she had never done them hurt, yet they dragged her from her horse all the same . She called for the heroes from the songs, for Florian and Ser Ryam Redwyne and Prince Aemon the Dragonknight . When she woke, the pale light of morning was slanting through her window, yet she felt as sick and achy as if she had not slept at all .
Madness took hold of her. Pulling herself up by the bedpost, she went to the basin and washed between her legs, scrubbing away all the stickiness . She rushed back to the bed and stared in horror at the dark red stain and the tale it told . Snatching up her knife, Sansa hacked at the sheet, cutting out the stain .
Cersei Lannister was breaking her fast when she was ushered into her solar . There was porridge, honey, milk, boiled eggs, and crisp fried fish . The sight of the food made Sansa feel ill .
A woman’s life is nine parts mess to one part magic, you’ll learn that soon enough . “I am now fit to be wedded and bedded,” said Sansa, “and to bear children for the king.” “His Grace was not with you?” “Robert? Robert was hunting. That was his custom. When he returned he would present me with some pelts or a stag’s head .
“I love His Grace with all my heart,” Sansa said . “You had best learn some new lies, and quickly. Lord Stannis will not like that one, I promise you.” A half smile flickered across the queen’s face . It was said he had the keenest eyes in the Night’s Watch.
A wind-carved arch of grey stone marked the highest point of the pass . Here the way broadened as it began its long descent toward the valley of the Milkwater . Stonesnake shared his salt beef with Ghost while Ebben and Squire Dalbridge fed the horses .
“Why did he desert?” Qhorin tested the edge of his sword with the ball of his thumb . “He liked women, Mance did, and he was not a man whose knees bent easily, that’s true. But it was more than that. He loved the wild better than the Wall. It was in his blood. He was wildling born, taken as a child when some raiders were put to the sword .
“If I had needed her dead, I would have left her with Ebben, or done the thing myself” Qhorin stood and slid his longsword back into its scabbard . “When I want a mountain scaled, I call on Stonesnake. Should I need to put an arrow through the eye of some foe across a windy battlefield, I summon Squire Dalbridge .
Ghost always slept better with the great white wolf beside him; there was comfort in the smell of him, and welcome warmth in that shaggy pale fur . When he closed his eyes, he dreamed of direwolves . There were five of them when there should have been six, and they were scattered, each apart from the others .
The weirwood had his brother’s face. He sniffed at the bark, smelled wolf and tree and boy, but behind that there were other scents, the rich brown smell of warm earth and the hard grey smell of stone and something terrible . He cringed back, his hair bristling, and bared his fangs . Before him the Skirling Pass opened up into airy emptiness .
There were men down in the valley, he saw now; many were tearing great holes in the half-frozen ground, while others trained for war . He watched as a swarming mass of riders charged a shield wall, astride horses no larger than ants . Everywhere crude earthen shelters and hide tents sprouted haphazardly, like a pox on the face of the earth .
A sudden gust of cold made his fur stand up, and the air thrilled to the sound of wings . A shrill scream split the air. He could still feel the talons, the pain . “Quiet! You mean to bring the wildlings down on us?” Ebben appeared, grabbed him, shook him .
“A wolf dream,” the Halfhand said . It made him feel half a fool to talk of such things to Qhorin and the other rangers . By the time he was done, even Squire Dalbridge was no longer smiling .
The last ray of sun vanished behind the peaks of Forktop . It seemed to grow colder almost at once . They were no longer climbing . In fact, the ground had begun to descend, though as yet not sharply . The eagle was perched on a spine of rock far above them .
Qhorin Halfhand was standing over him when Jon peeled off a glove and touched him . The talons had torn a bloody path through fur and flesh, but the bird had not been able to snap his neck . Together they washed the caked blood from the direwolf’s fur .
All night they rode, feeling their way up the twisting pass and through the stretches of broken ground . Once Ebben suggested that some torches might serve them well, but Qhorin said, “No fire” and that was the end of that. They reached the stone bridge at the summit and began to descend again . After Jon thought he saw a pair of glowing eyes on a ledge overhead, as big as harvest moons .
TYRION Pod dressed him for his ordeal in a plush velvet tunic of Lannister crimson . His sister misliked being reminded that he was the King’s Hand . He had to squint to read the words in the torchlit yard .
“You wanted the Stark boy dead, I believe.” Cersei said as she read . “The boy saw you,” Tyrion pointed out. “He was a child. I could have frightened him into silence.” She looked at the letter thoughtfully. “Why must I suffer accusations every time some Stark stubs his toe?” “I still hold Sansa!” the queen declared .
Tyrion served his sister a cut of ham and took one for himself . “I’d sooner she remain. If she wants to feel safe, tell her to bring down her garrison from Stokeworth. As many men as she has,” Cersei said .
“You put too much trust in that eunuch.” “He serves me well.” “You think you’re the only one he whispers to? He gives each of us just enough to convince us that we’d be helpless without him.” She studied his face for a moment . “Nothing is more important than the life of the king.” “Joff’s only a boy.” “I don’t intend to put him in the thick of the fighting, but for once he’s showing some
“You’ve lied to me before, Tyrion.” “Always with good reason, sweet sister. I want amity between us as much as you do. I’ve decided to release Lord Gyles.” He had kept Gyles safe for just this gesture. “You can have Ser Boros Blount back as well.” The queen’s mouth tightened. “Ser Boros can rot at Rosby,” she said. “I hope you like blackberry tarts.” “He doesn’t have a 
“I don’t depend on the eunuch for everything, as you do.” “Only this—I have your little whore.” “You’re such a droll little fellow. Tell me, have you married this one yet?” When he gave her no answer she laughed and said, “Father will be ever so relieved.” “Why should you care who I choose to warm my bed?” “A Lannister always pays his debts,” she said .
Ser Osmund’s brothers Osney and Osfryd were peas from the same pod, tall men with hooked noses, dark hair, and cruel smiles . She hung between them, eyes wide and white in her dark face . Blood trickled from her broken lip, and they’d gagged her so she could not speak .
The whore will live. So long as Joff does. You’ve lost, Cersei, and the Kettleblacks are even bigger fools than Bronn claimed . He looked at the girl’s face and said, “You swear you’ll release her after the battle?” He pushed himself to his feet .
Alayaya bent over and kissed him on the brow . Her broken lips left a smear of blood on his forehead . “You’ve ended that. I will hurt you for this. I don’t know how yet, but give me time. A day will come when you think yourself safe and happy,” Tyrion said .
Tyrion wiped Alayaya’s blood from his brow with the heel of his hand . “The Lady Lollys—” “She’s asleep. Sleep’s all she ever wants to do, the great cow.” “Her mother says she’s sick.” “She has a baby in her belly,” Shae said. “Lord Varys made me wear a hood. I couldn’t see, except .
Tyrion threw open his wardrobe, shoved the clothing aside, and pushed against the rear panel . A stone beside the window seat drew his eye, but all his tugging and prodding went for naught . When she felt him go soft, Shae slid down under the sheets and took him in her mouth .
The Great Hall of Riverrun was a lonely place for two to sit to supper . Catelyn sat staring into her wine goblet. Brienne was across from her . The walls were thick, yet even so, they could hear the muffle sounds of revelry .
“I am not made for revels, my lady.” Catelyn could sense her discomfort . “I only thought you might enjoy happier company than mine.” “I’m well content.” “The maester woke me at once. That was dutiful, but not kind at all.” She had not meant to tell Brienne .
Theon Greyjoy has mounted their heads on the walls of Winterfell . Brienne’s face was a watery blur, but her fingers stopped short of Catelyn’s, as if the touch might be unwelcome .
She had auburn hair, lighter than mine, and so thick and soft . Arya was a trial, it must be said. Half a boy and half a wolf pup. Forbid her anything and it became her heart’s desire .
Ned always said that the man who passes the sentence should swing the blade, though he never took any joy in the duty . It will not be easy for Robb to get Theon’s head off, I fear. The Starks do not use headsmen.
Lord Hoster lay on his back, mouth open, his breath a faint whistling sigh . She slid her fingers through his and closed them . The skin was warm, blue veins branching like rivers beneath his pale translucent skin . Too soon that current would grow still .
"I want my girls back, I want Robb to lay down his sword and pick some homely daughter of Walder Frey to make him happy and give him sons," Catelyn said . Moonlight slanted between the slats of the shutters, laying pale silvery bars across her father’s face . She could hear the soft whisper of his labored breathing .
The keys were chained to the studded leather belt that girdled his waist . He muttered under his breath as he sorted through them, until he found the one that fit the door to the Kingslayer’s cell . “Go back to your ale and leave us,” Brienne commanded .
Jaime Lannister had been allowed no razor since the night he was taken in the Whispering Wood . His unwashed hair fell to his shoulders in ropes and tangles, the clothes were rotting on his body, his face was pale and wasted .
“I grow weary of this, ser. There are things I must know.” “Why should I tell you anything?” “To save your life.” “You think I fear death?” That seemed to amuse him. “You should. Your crimes will have earned you a place of torment in the deepest of the seven hells, if the gods are just.” “If there are gods, why is the world so full of pain and injustice?” “Because of men like you.” “There’s only me
Catelyn hung the lamp from the door and moved the cup and flagon closer . Jaime sloshed the wine around his mouth before swallowing it . He put his back to the wall, drew his knees up to his chest, and stared at her .
“I’ve always loved my sister, and you owe me two answers.” “Ser Stafford Lannister was slain at Oxcross, I am told.” “They live, all three.” But not long, if the gods are good. Catelyn wondered if he would dare answer her next question with anything but a lie . “You were a knight, sworn to defend the weak and innocent. He was spying on us.” “Bran would not spy.”
“I won’t deny we talked of it, but you were with the boy day and night, your maester and Lord Eddard attended him frequently?” “If you lie to me, this session is at an end.” Catelyn held out her hands, to show him her fingers and palms . “Your honor as a Lannister is worth less than this.” She kicked over the waste pail . Gods be merciful, he’s telling the truth.
Tyrion Lannister had said much the same thing as they rode through the Mountains of the Moon, Catelyn remembered . She had refused to believe him, Petyr who had been almost a brother . He tossed down another cup of wine .
“Renly is dead, murdered by his brother, through some black art I do not understand.” “Your boy must be feeling lonely.” “He hasn’t faced my father yet, has he?” “When he does, he’ll defeat him. As he did you.” “You dare talk of tricks? Your brother Tyrion sent us cutthroats in envoy’s garb,” Catelyn could not deny it .
Jaime reached for the flagon to refill his cup . He took a healthy swallow of wine and closed his eyes for an instant . “I was the youngest man ever to wear the white cloak.” “Kingslayer,” he pronounced carefully .
"No doubt Ned wished to spare you. You wanted truth. Ask me. We made a bargain, I can deny you nothing. Ask." "Dead is dead." "Brandon was nothing like you," Jaime said . "He was on his way to Riverrun when . you and he were to wed."
Lord Rickard demanded trial by combat, and the king granted the request . Stark armored himself as for battle, thinking to duel one of the Kingsguard . Instead they took him to the throne room and suspended him from the rafters while two of Aerys’s pyromancers kindled a blaze beneath him . The king told him that fire was the champion of House Targaryen . So all needed to prove himself innocent of treason was
The Starks were nothing to me. I think it passing odd that I am loved by one for a kindness I never did, and reviled by so many for my finest act . As for your Ned, he should have kissed the hand that slew Aerys, but he preferred to scorn the arse found sitting on Robert’s throne .
Theon crashed through heedless, breathless, icicles flying to pieces before him . From behind came a shuddering howl that curdled his blood . He could smell the hot breath of the beasts behind him, a stink of brimstone and corruption . Theon tried to run faster, but his legs would not obey .
Theon had begun to fear that Asha meant to leave him to his fate. Mercy. He glanced outside the window, where the first vague light of dawn was just brushing the towers of Winterfell. “Where is she?” “Lorren took her and her men to the Great Hall to break their fast. The fire had burned down to embers. “Wex, hot water.” He could not let Asha see him disheveled and soaked with sweat. The bedchamber felt as cold as the dream
Theon had forgotten her name, but he remembered her body, soft pillowy breasts and stretch marks on her belly, the way she clawed his back when he fucked her . Last night in his dream he had been in bed with her once again, but this time she had teeth above and below, and she tore out his throat even as she was gnawing off his manhood . At least Gelmarr had cut her down with one blow of his axe as she cried to Theon for
Gynir Rednose was so wary that he shunned wine, took to sleeping in byrnie, coif, and helm . He adopted the noisiest dog in the kennels to give him warning should anyone try to steal up on his sleeping place . Theon sat in judgment, called him guilty, and condemned him to death .
“I am the Prince of Winterfell!” Theon Greyjoy had shouted . “This is my seat, no man will drive me from it. No, nor woman either!” Asha. It was her doing. My own sweet sister, may the Others bugger her with a sword. She wanted him dead, so she could steal his place as their father’s heir.
Asha quaffed half a horn of ale and wiped her mouth with the back of her hand . He took no joy from those heads, no more than he had in displaying the headless bodies of the children before the castle . Only Maester Luwin had the stomach to come near .
Theon had no choice but to lead Asha to Ned Stark’s solar . He blurted, “Dagmer’s lost the fight at Torrhen’s Square—” “The old castellan broke his shield wall, yes,” Asha said calmly . “I need not have brought you any.” “I commanded you—” He said .
Winterfell is the heart of the land, but how am I to hold it without a garrison? "You might have thought of that before you took it. Oh, it was cleverly done, I’ll grant you." "Your prize will be the doom of you. Krakens rise from the sea, Theon," Asha shook her head .
Asha snorted back a laugh . "This Ser Rodrik may well feel the same manly need, did you think of that? You are blood of my blood, Theon, whatever else you may be. Put Winterfell to the torch and fall back while you still can," Asha said .
Theon narrowed his eyes, narrowing his eyes . “I am well aware of that,” Theon said. “Well, might be I could help you,” Reek said .
King Robert sat with his guts spilling out on the table from the great gash in his belly, and Lord Eddard was headless beside him . Corpses lined the benches below, grey-brown flesh sloughing off their bones as they raised their cups to toast, worms crawling in and out of the holes that were their eyes . The miller’s wife was there as well, and Farlen, even the wildling Theon had killed in the wolfswood the
Theon woke with a scream, startling Wex so badly that the boy ran naked from the room . When his guards burst in with drawn swords, he ordered them to bring him the maester . By the time Luwin arrived rumpled and sleepy, a cup of wine had steadied Theon’s hands, and he was feeling ashamed of his panic .
A brisk autumn wind was swirling through the battlements . It reddened his cheeks and stung his eyes . He watched the forest go from grey to green below him as light filtered through the silent trees .
The Imp was mounted on a red stallion, armored more plainly than the king in battle gear that made him look like a little boy dressed up in his father’s clothes . But there was nothing childish about the battle-axe slung below his shield . Ser Mandon Moore rode at his side, white steel icy bright .
Joffrey drew his sword, Hearteater. He’d owned a sword named Lion’s Tooth once, Sansa remembered . Arya had taken it from him and thrown it in a river . He extended the blade down to her .
Ser Meryn and Ser Osmund fell in to his right and left, the gold cloaks following four abreast. The Imp and Ser Mandon Moore brought up the rear. The guards saw them off with shouts and cheers . Sansa had never seen the sept so crowded, nor so brightly lit; great shafts of rainbow-colored sunlight slanted down through the crystals in the high windows .
Gentle Mother, strength of women, help our daughters through this fray, soothe the wrath and tame the fury, teach us all a kinder way . Sansa knew most of the hymns, and followed along on those she did not know as best she could . She sang with those inside the castle walls and those without, sang with all the city .
The septon called upon the Smith to lend strength to Joffrey’s sword and shield . Let his sword break and his shield shatter, Sansa thought coldly as she shoved out through the doors, let his courage fail him and every man desert him . Away off, she could hear the sounds of battle . It was another sort of song, a terrible song .
Lady Tanda says she hasn't been well . "Please, please, I don’t want to" Lollys clutched at her maid, a slender, pretty girl with short dark hair .
A line of arched windows ran along the south wall, but they had been closed off with heavy draperies . Thick velvet hangings admitted no thread of light, and would muffle the sound of prayer and war alike. It makes no matter, Sansa thought. The war is with us.
Ser Ilyn was the King’s Justice . There was only one service he might be needed for . She looked pale, Sansa cried .
"True knights would never harm women and children," the queen said . "No doubt you’re right. So why don’t you just eat your broth like a good girl and wait for Symeon Star-Eyes and Prince Aemon the Dragonknight to come rescue you, sweetling. I’m sure it won’t be very long now."
A hundred blades dipped down into the water as the oarmaster’s drum began to boom . The sound was like the beating of a great slow heart . Ser Imry had decreed that they would enter the river alone . Davos knew Fury as well as his own ships .
Lord Velaryon’s silver-hulled Pride of Driftmark had moved into her position to port of Wraith, and Bold Laughter was coming up fast . Harridan was only now getting her oars into the water and Seahorse was still struggling to bring down her mast . He could hear soldiers shouting encouragement to each other across the water, though Davos had grave doubts about her captain .
Seaworth had a lordly ring to it, but down deep he was still Davos of Flea Bottom . He had fought his share of desperate fights sword to sword on a wet deck . But to this sort of battle he came a maiden, nervous and afraid .
All but twelve ships had finally regrouped behind the sheltering spine of Massey’s Hook . They would have reached the Rush days ago, but armored destriers and twelve-foot lances would avail them little against the deep waters of the Blackwater Rush .
Ser Imry and the other highborn captains did not share his view . They glittered as they paced their decks . Harridan and Seahorse had slipped into their places now .
Trumpets sounded from among them, tiny and brazen, soon swallowed by the roar of a thousand shouts . Davos closed his stubby hand around the pouch that held his fingerbones, and mouthed a silent prayer for luck.
Fury herself would center the first line of battle, flanked by the Lord Steffon and the Stag of the Sea, each of two hundred oars . On the port and starboard wings were the hundreds: Lady Harra, Brightfish, Laughing Lord, Sea Demon, Horned Honor, Ragged Jenna, Trident Three, Swift Sword, Dog’s Nose, Sceptre, Faithful, Red Raven, Queen Alysanne, Cat, Courageous
Swordfish had joined the line at last, though she still had her sail raised . On deck, soldiers banged sword against shield, while archers quietly strung their bows and pulled the first arrow from their belts . In his smuggling days, Davos had often jested that he knew the waterfront better than the back of his hand .
A shout went up from the ships ahead, and the warhorns blew again: the enemy was before them . When he had been a smuggler, he’d always felt safer knowing whether the sail on the horizon marked a fast ship or a slow one, and whether her captain was a young man hungry for glory or an old one serving out his days.
Davos saw no sign of foes sweeping in behind them, only the great fleet of Stannis Baratheon in their ordered ranks . The ships left out in the bay could still land men north of the city; a slower crossing, but safer .
Men-at-arms were scrambling on Queen Alysanne’s deck . By then a second flight was on its way, and arrows were falling as well . A soldier tumbled over Cat’s gunwale, crashed off the oars and sank . It will be our turn soon, he reminded himself, uneasy .
Prayer and Devotion had a single door, set a good twenty feet off the ground . Bowmen on the roof of the northern tower were firing back . Davos heard a man scream as the arrows found him .
Stannis had shipped her back to Dragonstone with his bastard nephew Edric Storm . Only the queen’s men had dissented, and then not loudly . All the same, the king had been on the point of refusing them until Lord Bryce Caron said, “Your Grace, if the sorceress is with us, afterward men will say it was her victory, not yours.” That had turned the tide .
Prayer landed two dozen yards upstream and Piety was slanting toward the bank . The knights fell among the archers like wolves among chickens . Men-at-arms rushed to defend them with spear and axe . In three heartbeats the scene had turned to blood-soaked chaos .
Ashore, the arms of the great trebuchets rose one, two, three, and a hundred stones climbed high into the yellow sky . When they fell they sent up great gouts of water, smashed through oak planking, and turned living men into bone and pulp and gristle . Black Betha flew, the water turning white as milk as it parted for her prow .
Black Betha and Lady Marya slammed into the side of Lady’s Shame within an instant of each other, ramming her fore and aft with such force that men were thrown off the deck of Lady of Silk three boats away . Davos almost bit his tongue off when his teeth jarred together. Next time close your mouth, you fool. This was the first time he’d rammed another ship .
Lady Marya had won clear too; the fire was spreading over Queen Alysanne and her foes faster than he would have believed possible . On the walls of King’s Landing, spitfires were belching death, and the great trebuchets behind the Mud Gate were throwing boulders . One the size of an ox crashed down between Black Betha and Wraith .
Davos saw a swarm of small boats bearing downriver . It stank of desperation; such driftwood could not turn tide of a fight, only get in the way . The starboard wing was heavily engaged, but the center had shattered under the stones of those trebuchets .
A jagged piece of wood flew past his head, sharp as any spear . He drew his sword and led them over the rail himself . It was true, Davos saw. Most of the enemy were dead, dying, or yielded .
Queen Alysanne and Lady of Silk were still locked together . Cat was taking on men from the fast-sinking Courageous . Stag of the Sea was fighting fires and boarders both, but the fiery heart had been raised over Joffrey’s Loyal Man .
Davos Seaworth saw green gushing from a thousand broken jars, poison from the entrails of a dying beast, glistening, shining, spreading across the surface of the river . Her ungainly iron ram, fashioned after the likeness of the fish from which she took her name, parted the surface before her. Directly ahead, drifting toward her and swinging around to present a tempting plump target, was one of the Lannister hulks,
Unsure which way was up, Davos wrestled the river in blind panic until suddenly he broke the surface . Swordfish and the hulk were gone, blackened bodies were floating downstream beside him, and choking men clinging to bits of smoking wood . Fifty feet high, a swirling demon of green flame danced upon the river .
Salladhor Saan’s galleys would be out in the bay as well, Ser Imry had commanded them to stand off . The boom stretched taut, a bare two or three feet above the water, and the current was pushing others against them . Half of Stannis’s fleet was ablaze, along with most of Joffrey’s .
A dozen great fires raged under the city walls, where casks of burning pitch had exploded, but the wildfire reduced them to no more than candles in a burning house . The low clouds caught the color of the burning river and roofed the sky in shades of shifting green, eerily beautiful . A terrible beauty. Like dragonfire.
Joffrey’s voice cracked as he shouted up from the wallwalk . The golden circlet of kingship adorned his battle helm . “My Kingslander’s burning, Queen Cersei, Loyal Man. Look, that’s Seaflower, there.” He pointed out to where the green flames were licking at Seaflower’s golden hull .
a good part of the south wing of the enemy’s first two battle lines had been well upstream of the inferno when the hulks went up . Stannis would be left with thirty or forty galleys, at a guess; more than enough to bring his whole host across . But even the bravest would be dismayed after watching a thousand or so of his fellows consumed by wildfire .
Joffrey had the Antler Men trussed up naked in the square below, antlers nailed to their heads . Some of the gold cloaks had been wagering on whether the traitors would fly all the way across the Blackwater .
Tyrion cursed and made for the steps with a rolling waddle . They galloped off down River Row, Pod and Ser Mandon Moore coming hard behind him . The shuttered houses were steeped in green shadow . Tyrion had commanded that the street be kept clear so the defenders could move quickly from one gate to the next .
The blood on Clegane’s face glistened red, but his eyes showed white . He drew his longsword. He is afraid, Tyrion realized, shocked . The Hound is frightened. He tried to explain their need . "They’ve taken a ram to the gate, you can hear them, we need to disperse them," Tyrion said .
Ser Mandon helped Tyrion mount up again . He looked contemptuously at the others, the knights and sellswords who had ridden with Clegane . The King’s Gate shuddered again.
“You won’t hear me shout out Joffrey’s name,” Tyrion told them . “This is your city Stannis means to sack, and that’s your gate he’s bringing down” Tyrion unsheathed his axe, wheeled the stallion around, and trotted toward the sally port . Sansa could see it in the pale eyes of Ser Ilyn Payne, who stood by the back door still as stone, taking neither food nor
Cersei beckoned to her page for another cup of wine, a golden vintage from the Arbor . The queen was drinking heavily, but the wine only seemed to make her more beautiful . Moon Boy lurched about the hall on stilts making mock of everyone .
"I would sooner face any number of swords than sit helpless like this," she said . "They will be expected of you should you ever wed Joffrey." "Of themselves the hens are nothing, but their cocks are important for one reason or another, and some may survive this battle. So it behooves me to give their women my protection .
"Their birth protects them," Cersei admits . Even so, a golden shield is better than none . Don’t imagine the old and the infirm and the ugly will be spared .
Ser Osmund and his brothers had become great favorites about the castle . They were always ready with a smile and a jest, and got on with grooms and huntsmen as well as they did with knights and squires . Sansa had heard the women at the washing well saying he was as strong as the Hound .
"The night’s first traitors," the queen said, “but not the last, I fear. Have Ser Ilyn see to them, and put their heads on pikes outside the stables as a warning.” “Another lesson you should learn, if you hope to sit beside my son. The only way to keep your people loyal is to make certain they fear you more than they do the enemy.”
Jaime and I were so much alike that even our lord father could not tell us apart . When Jaime was given his first sword, there was none for me . “When it comes to swords, a queen is only a woman after all.” Cersei’s wine cup was empty .
Lady Tanda and her daughters were among those who fled . Ser Dontos sang of Jonquil and Florian, of Prince Aemon the Dragonknight and his love for his brother’s queen, of Nymeria’s ten thousand ships . Sansa shifted nervously .
Sansa emptied the cup, gulping down the thick sweet wine until her head was swimming . Ser Ilyn was striding from the shadows behind the dais as silent as a cat . There was blood drying on the steel, the red already fading to brown .
TYRION The slot in Tyrion’s helm limited his vision to what was before him . When he turned his head he saw three galleys beached on the tourney grounds . Ser Mandon Moore took the place to his right, flames shimmering against the white enamel of his armor, his dead eyes shining passionlessly through his helm .
Ahead loomed the King’s Gate and a surging mob of soldiers wrestling with a huge ram . Archers off the ships surrounded them, loosing their shafts at whatever defenders showed themselves on the gatehouse walls . “Lances,” Tyrion commanded. He sped to a canter. The ground was sodden and slippery, equal parts mud and blood .
Ser Mandon smashed a man in the face with all the weight of axe and arm . A spear thudded against his shield, slashing down at every foe they passed . The battering ram crashed down into the mud, forgotten in an instant as its handlers fled or turned to fight .
A splintering crash rang across the Blackwater as a stone the size of a horse landed square amidships on one of the galleys . The big destrier liked fire no more than Sandor Clegane had, but the horse was easier to cow .
He led his troop among them, delivering quicker cleaner deaths to those strong enough to stand . Knights twice his size fled from him, or stood and died . He had never thought to experience it himself, though Jaime had told him of it often enough .
Tyrion lopped off the head of his spear and then his hand, then his arm, trotting around him in a circle . An archer thrust at him with an arrow, holding it as if it were a knife . A knight rose up from nowhere to hack at his shield with a two-handed greatsword .
Squinting into the smoke and glare, Tyrion followed them back into the river . Twenty galleys were jammed together out there, maybe more, it was hard to count . One great hulk floated hull up between two smaller ships .
Stannis Baratheon's boldest were doing just that . Tyrion saw one great fool of a knight trying to ride across . He led them through guttering fires and the soot and ash of the riverfront .
He lost his knife and gained a broken spear, shrieking curses . He stabbed one man in the kidney when his back was turned, and grabbed another by the leg and upended him into the river . Arrows hissed past his head and clattered off his armor, but never felt it .
Suddenly the river was pouring into Tyrion's helm . He crawled along the listing deck until the water was only neck deep . A groaning filled the air, like the death cries of some enormous beast .
The hull slammed into the next galley over and rebounded so violently he was almost knocked into the water . It was only at the very last, as their fingers brushed across the gap, that something niggled at him . The shock of the cold water was a second slap more jolting than the first .
Ser Lancel Lannister told the queen that the battle was lost, she turned her empty wine cup in her hands and said, “Tell my brother, ser.” Her voice was distant, as if the news were of no great interest to her . The gold cloaks are throwing down their spears and running, hundreds of them . When they saw the king leaving, they lost all heart .
The Hound’s gone, no one knows where, and Ser Balon’s fallen back inside the city . There’s mobs at the Iron Gate and the Gate of the Gods fighting to get out, and Flea Bottom’s one great drunken riot.” Gods be good, Sansa thought, it is happening, Joffrey’s lost his head and so have I . Strangely calm, the queen turned to his brother Osfryd .
Ser Lancel cried out in pain and almost fainted as the queen swept from the room . She spared Sansa not so much as a glance . “Don’t be afraid,” she told them loudly .
Sansa went to Ser Lancel and knelt beside him. His wound was bleeding afresh where the queen had struck him . “Take him to Maester Frenken.” Lancel was one of them, yet somehow she still could not wish him dead .
It took all the strength she had in her to walk slowly from the Queen’s Ballroom . When she reached the steps, she did run, up and around until she was breathless and dizzy . A jeweled wine cup and a pair of silver candlesticks spilled out of the crimson cloak . He hurried after them, paying Sansa no mind once he decided she was not going to try and take his loot .
Sansa opened her mouth to scream, but another hand clamped down over her face, smothering her . The voice was a drunken rasp. She saw him for a moment, all black and green, the blood on his face dark as tar, his eyes glowing like a dog’s in the sudden glare . He took his hand from her mouth. His breath was coming ragged .
“You won’t get out,” Sansa said. “The queen’s closed up Maegor’s, and the city gates are shut as well.” He laughed bitterly. “Why did you come here?” “You promised me a song, little bird. Have you forgotten?” She couldn’t sing for him now, here, with the sky aswirl with fire and men dying in their hundreds and their thousands .
Her voice sounded small and thin and tremulous in her ears . Gentle Mother, font of mercy, save our sons from war, we pray, stay the swords and stay the arrows, let them know a better day.
Ser Dontos brought her the word when King Robert died . He was as drunk as the Hound had been, but in him it was a dancing happy drunk . She was breathless and dizzy when he let her down . “Tell me what’s happened!” She shook him .
Ser Dontos hopped from one leg to the other, almost falling . They came up through the ashes while the river was burning . He had it from Ser Osmund, but Ser Balon’s back now and his men say the same .
Dany had braided her hair Dothraki fashion, and fastened a silver bell to the end of the braid . She chimed as she mounted her silver mare, and again with every stride . The streets teemed with children, beggars, and skinny dogs the color of sand .
Ser Jorah had reclined too long on satin cushions, letting oxen bear her hither and yon . At least when she rode she felt as though she was getting somewhere . She had begun running in her mother’s womb, and never once stopped .
Ghost grass grows in the Garden of Gehane, phantom tortoises have been seen carrying messages between windowless houses on Warlock’s Way . Even fresh-washed silks make her feel like a thousand insects were crawling on her skin . Blind Sybassion the Eater of Eyes can see again, or so his slaves do swear. A man must wonder.” He sighed .
Dothraki had lingered in Qarth too long, seduced by its comforts and beauties . Overnight the Qartheen had come to remember that dragons were dangerous . No longer did they vie with each other to give her gifts . It was all Xaro could do to keep the Thirteen from joining them .
“I am a trader, Khaleesi. So perhaps we should speak no more of giving, but rather of trade.” “No,” Xaro sobbed, “that was not the word I meant.” “Would you ask a mother to sell one of her children?” “Whyever not? They can always make more. Mothers sell their children every day.” “Not even for twenty ships?” “Not for a hundred.” His mouth curled downward. “You will still have two, and thirty
Pyat Pree and Xaro Xhoan Daxos whispered of three treasons once for blood and once for love . The first traitor was surely Mirri Maz Duur, who murdered Khal Drogo and their unborn son to avenge her people .
“Your Grace? The sigil of House Targaryen is a three-headed dragon, red on black.” “The three heads were Aegon and his sisters.” “Visenya and Rhaenys,” she recalls . “Blue lips speak only lies, isn’t that what Xaro told you? Why do you care what the warlocks whispered? All they wanted was to suck the life from you, you know that now.”
Rhaegar’s daughter was named, like Aegon’s sister . There was no Visenya, but he said the dragon has three heads . “I went to the warlocks hoping for answers, but instead they’ve left me with a hundred new questions,” Aggo shouted .
Seamen from half a hundred nations wandered amongst the stalls . The air smelled of salt and frying fish, of hot tar and honey . Aggo gave an urchin a copper for a skewer of honey-roasted mice . Elsewhere they saw beautiful bronze daggers for sale, dried squids and carved onyx .
A crowd had gathered around the Spicer galley Sunblaze to bid on slaves . It was well known that the cheapest place to buy a slave was right off the ship . She rode her silver past several miles of their quays, docks, and storehouses, all the way out to the horseshoe-shaped harbor .
Dany told a Lyseni on the Trumpeteer that she was Daenerys Stormborn, Queen of the Seven Kingdoms . The cargomaster of the Myrish galley Silken Spirit opined that dragons were too dangerous at sea . "I’ll have no such godless savages in my Belly, I’ll not," Dany said .
“A most excellent brass, great lady,” the merchant exclaimed . “They may not mean me ill. Men have looked at women since time began, perhaps it is no more than that.” “All the brass in this booth is not worth twenty honors,” Dany told him as she studied reflections .
A long curving arakh was thrust through the sweat-stained yellow silk of his bellyband . Above the silk, he was naked but for an absurdly tiny iron-studded vest . Old scars crisscrossed his tree-trunk arms, huge chest, and massive belly .
Ser Jorah slammed past her, and Dany stumbled to one knee . The old man drove the butt of his staff into the ground, Aggo came riding through an eggseller’s stall and vaulted from his saddle . A Qartheen stepped into her path. “Mother of Dragons, for you.” Dany took it almost by reflex .
Ser Jorah had been shoved off his feet by the eunuch . She ran between them as arakh and longsword both came flashing from their sheaths . "They were defending me," Dany snapped her hand to shake the sting from her fingers .
Aggo picked up his staff, turned it over, cursed softly in Dothraki, scraped the remains of the manticore off on a stone, and handed it back . “I am Belwas. Strong Belwas they name me in the fighting pits of Meereen. Never did I lose.” He slapped his belly, covered with scars .
Ser Jorah had shouldered his way to her side, holding the brass platter awkwardly under his arm . "I saw you fight a time or two. At Lannisport where you near unhorsed the Kingslayer. And on Pyke, there as well. You do not recall, Lord Mormont?" Ser Jrah frowned .
Dany gave him a smile, to take a bit of the sting from the rebuke . "He would have dragons," said Belwas gruffly, "and the girl who makes them. He would have you." "The Seven Kingdoms have need of you," said Arstan Whitebeard .
Maester Tothmure had been sent to the axe for dispatching birds to Casterly Rock and King’s Landing the night Harrenhal had fallen . Lucan the armorer for making weapons for the Lannisters, Goodwife Harra for giving Lord Tywin the keys to the treasure vault . They were left in the middle ward beside the bear pit, free for the use of any man who wanted them .
Goodwife Amabel was half-crazed since they cut Harra’s head off . “When this northman falls you’ll be where she is.” “Let me go.” Amabel tried to wrench free, but Amabel only tightened her fingers . Lord Tywin’s won now, and then it will be his turn to punish the disloyal.
The Brave Companions did most of the foraging for Harrenhal, and Roose Bolton had given them the task of rooting out Lannisters . Vargo Hoat had divided them into four bands, to visit as many villages as possible . He gave the others to his most trusted captains, so the Mummers often returned with bags of coins as well as baskets of heads .
Rorge and Biter were as bad as the others . Biter gave off a stench like bad cheese, so the Brave Companions made him sit down near the foot of the table where he could grunt and hiss to himself . Sometimes she wished she had gone off across the narrow sea with Jaqen H’ghar .
Elmar Frey had been rolling a barrel of sand across the uneven stone . Together they pushed the barrel all the way to the wall and back again, then stood it upright . Elmar could be friendly when he needed help, but afterward he would always remember that he was a squire .
Roose Bolton lay abed, naked, naked . He paid them no more mind than Arya did . Ser Aenys Frey had brought fifteen hundred Frey swords south to Harrenhal .
Ser Harys Haigh, who was a Frey on his mother’s side, nodded vigorously . “I have been Lord Tywin’s captive once,” Ser Hosteen said .
King Robb must make his peace with the Lannisters . He must put off his crown and bend the knee, little as he may like it . The Freys made courtesies and shuffled out, leaving only Qyburn, Steelshanks Walton, and Arya .
The Lady Walda wrote from the Twins almost every day, but all the letters were the same . “I pray for you morn, noon, and night, my sweet lord,” Bolton said . Arya wanted to ask him what Ser Hosteen had meant about Winterfell .
Robett Glover has lost a castle, and Tallhart a son. Let them take their vengeance on Duskendale.” “I shall prepare the message for your seal, my lord.” Arya was glad to hear that the castle of the Darrys would be burned . It was where they’d brought her when she’d been caught after her fight with Joffrey .
The lord and maester swept from the room, giving her not so much as a backward glance . When they were gone, Arya took the letter and carried it to the hearth . She watched the parchment twist, blacken, and flare up . If the Lannisters hurt Bran and Rickon, Robb will kill them every one .
Arya slashed at birch leaves till the splintery point of the broken broomstick was green and sticky . A sheen of sweat covered her skin by the time she paused . The heel of her right foot was bloody where she’d skinned it .
Arya spied a raven circling down towards the rookery, and wondered where it had come from . She chewed on her lip, hoping. I could fly back to Winterfell and see for myself . Seven were adults, big grey-brown beasts, savage and powerful . But the other two had only been pups .
Hot Pie was making oatcakes when she entered the kitchen . One of the cooks washed his hands, took out a kettle, and filled it with a heavy, sweet red . Hot Pie hates me too, or else he’s scared of me .
“Did I give you leave to question me, Nan?” She lowered her eyes . “You should not have spoken, then. Should you?” “No. My lord.” He cut her off. “I am not in the habit of being questioned by servants, Nan. Must I have your tongue out?” He would do it as easily as another man might cuff a dog .
"My brothers might be dead," she said, and ran off before he could grab her . Gooseprickles rose on Arya’s skin, and for an instant she felt dizzy . "When the snows fall and the white winds blow, the lone wolf dies, but the pack survives," she whispered .
Roose Bolton was a cautious man, and the entrance to Kingspyre was guarded day and night . At the forge she found the fires extinguished and the doors closed and barred . She crouched in a window before her eyes adjusted enough for her to be sure that he was the one on the end .
Lord Bolton is giving Harrenhal to the Bloody Mummers, he told me so.” Gendry pushed black hair out of his eyes . “That’s only a story,” he said scornfully. “No, it’s true, I heard Lord Vargo say so,” she lied. “I know that gate. It’s guarded, same as the rest.” “No. But if you do, you won’t forget the swords?” He frowned .
A horse neighed softly as she slipped into the darkened stables . The grooms were all asleep. She prodded one with her toe until he sat up groggily . Arya helped him with the bridles and saddles, so he would not need to wake any of the others . She hoped they would not hurt him afterward, but she knew they probably would .
The Tower of Ghosts was the most ruinous of Harrenhal’s five immense towers . It stood dark and desolate behind the remains of a collapsed sept where only rats had come to pray for near three hundred years . Gendry was quieter, but the swords he was carrying rang together as he moved . Hot Pie had a sack of bread dangling from his right hand and a big wheel of cheese under his arm .
She slid through the shadow of the Tower of Ghosts . She walked fast, to keep ahead of her fear, and it felt as though Gendry had brought her . For this the dagger would be better. It was good and sharp .
Arya slid her dagger out and drew it across his throat, as smooth as summer silk . He went to a knee to grope for the coin in the dirt, and there was his neck right in front of her . Hot Pie and Gendry came up with the horses, the rain was falling hard .
Queen Cersei shimmered in a cloth-of-gold gown slashed in burgundy velvet . Lord Gyles was coughing into a square of scarlet silk trimmed with golden lace . King Joffrey was in crimson samite, his black mantle studded with rubies .
Sansa rode his warhorse down the length of the hall and dismounted before the Iron Throne . He had never seen such armor; all burnished red steel, inlaid with golden scrollwork and ornamentation . Even the horse’s armor was gilded, and his bardings were shimmering crimson silk emblazoned with the lion of Lannister .
Ser Garlan Tyrell, five years senior to Ser Loras, was taller bearded version of his younger brother . “Your Grace,” Garlan said when the king approached him, “I have a maiden sister, Margaery, the delight of our House.” “I beseech you to send for her, to take her hand in marriage, and to wed your House to mine for all time.”
Sire, your councillors beg you, for the good of your realm, set Sansa Stark aside . The Lady Margaery will make you a far more suitable queen .
Sansa felt as if she were back on the marble steps outside the Great Sept of Baelor, waiting for her prince to grant her father mercy . Lord Tywin gave him a sullen glance, shifted his feet, and helped Ser Garlan Tyrell to rise . The queen had warned her; no matter what she felt inside, the face she showed the world must look distraught.
Paxter Redwyne, Lord of Highgarden, marched down the length of the hall flanked by his twin sons Horror and Slobber, the former limping from a wound taken in the battle . After them followed Lord Mathis Rowan in a snowy doublet with a great tree worked upon the breast in gold thread; Lord Randyll Tarly, lean and balding; Ser Addam Marbrand, coppery hair streaming to his shoulders; the great western lords Lyd
Ser Philip shall henceforth be Lord Philip of House Foote . Lothor Brune to be raised to the estate of knighthood, and granted land and keep in the riverlands at war’s end . Goodman Willit, a spear with a silver-banded haft and a full helm with visor .
The captains of the king’s warships Wildwind, Prince Aemon, and River Arrow were honored next, along with some under officers from Godsgrace, Lance, Lady of Silk, and Ramshead . Hallyne was raised to the style of lord, though Sansa noted that neither lands nor castle accompanied the title .
Petyr Baelish and his sons and grandsons shall hold and enjoy these honors until the end of time . Lord Paramount of the Trident, Sansa thought, and Lord of Harrenhal as well .
Mandon Moore had perished in the battle, the Hound had vanished, Aerys Oakheart was in Dorne with Princess Myrcella . Jaime Lannister was Robb’s captive, so the Kingsguard had been reduced to Balon Swann, Meryn Trant and Osmund Kettleblack . By the time all the new knights had been given their sers the hall was growing restive .
sour old Lord Celtigar, the Red Crab; Ser Bonifer the Good; Lord Estermont . Ser Mark Mullendore, grey-faced, his left arm gone to the elbow; fierce Red Ronnet of Griffin Roost; Ser Dermot of the Rainwood; Ser Jon Fossoway; Ser Timon the Scrapesword; Aurane, the bastard of Driftmark; Lord Staedmon, called Pennylover .
Joffrey is the black worm eating the heart of the realm! Darkness was his father, and death his mother! Destroy them all, queen whore and king worm, vile dwarf and whispering spider, the false flowers. Save yourselves!” He lurched to his feet . “The scouring fire will come! King Stannis will return!” He chopped down with his hand .
A score of captives still waited, though whether to pledge fealty or shout curses, who could say? Lord Tywin rose to his feet. “We continue,” he said in a clear strong voice that silenced the murmurs . They say the Iron Throne can be perilous cruel to those who were not meant to sit it .
Ser Dontos planted a slobbery kiss on her ear . “The night of Joffrey’s wedding. After the feast. All the necessary arrangements have been made. The Red Keep will be full of strangers . The wedding won’t be for a moon’s turn yet. Margaery Tyrell is at Highgarden .
Small gems were set wherever two strands crossed, so dark they drank the moonlight . “It’s very lovely,” Sansa said, thinking, It is a ship I need, not a net for my hair . Theon Maester Luwin came to him when the first scouts were seen outside the walls .
Maester Luwin stooped to scoop a puddled cloak off the floor, shook off the rushes, and draped it over his shoulders . “You have no hope of holding here,” the maester said . Theon is not so innocent of warcraft as you think, old man .
Ser Rodrik Cassel and all the lords who have come to his call. I will not run from them. If you leave now, before the main force is upon us, there’s still a chance you may win free.” He unsheathed his longsword and drew a line in the dirt . Theon felt as though he were drowning.
Wex was the first to cross the line, slouching . Black Lorren replied contempt in his eyes . It’s not victory he wants, it’s an end worthy of a song .
Theon climbed the watchtower at the angle where the eastern and southern walls came together to have a look at his doom . He saw no siege towers rumbling up the kingsroad, but there was timber enough in the wolfswood to build as many as were required . Theon studied their banners through Maester Luwin’s Myrish lens tube .
Theon rode to the gatehouse with his crown on his head . A woman was drawing water from the well, and Gage the cook stood in the door of the kitchens . When the drawbridge was lowered, a chill wind sighed across the moat . It is the cold, nothing more, Theon told himself .
"I am a Greyjoy of Pyke," Theon reminded him . "The cloak my father swaddled me in bore a kraken, not a direwolf." "I came out to parley, not to suffer your insults," the old man said . “Robb will never look on Moat Cailin again,” Theon promised .
Ser Rodrik shook his head. "Only vain, lad. Theon has always had too lofty an opinion of himself, I fear." Theon raised a fist over his head, the signal Black Lorren had been told to watch for . "To use a child so . this is despicable," said Theon .
Ser Rodrik’s knuckles had gone white, but after a moment he took his hand off the swordhilt . Theon did not fear a doddering old man but those watching archers and that line of knights were a different matter .
A fire had been laid in Ned Stark’s bedchamber . Theon sat beside it and filled a cup with a heavy-bodied red . They will attack, he thought gloomily, staring at the flames .
Theon had been frightened that night, but not like this . When wine brought no solace, Theon sent Wex to fetch his bow and took himself to the old inner ward . Behind him the broken tower stood, its summit as jagged as a crown where fire had collapsed the upper stories long ago .
Theon lowered the bow half an inch and said, “I will not run.” “I do not speak of running. Take the black.” “The Night’s Watch?” Theon let the bow unbend slowly and pointed the arrow at the ground . It meant no crown, no sons, no wife, but it meant life, and life with honor .
Theon watched a wounded man drag himself painfully across the ground . He wore a leather jerkin and conical halfhelm, but no badge to tell which side he’d fought on . “I’ll see this for myself,” Theon said .
Maester Luwin had told him that, a long time ago . “The horselords across the narrow sea.” “Oh. Them.” Black Lorren frowned through his beard. “Savages believe all manner of foolish things.” As the night grew darker and the smoke spread it was harder to make out what was happening below .
Theon descended with Black Lorren and Maester Luwin to meet them in the yard . Theon asked Red Helm as he dismounted. “Twenty or thirty.” The torchlight glittered off the chipped enamel of his visor . He put both hands to his helm and lifted it off his head, holding it in the crook of his arm .
Theon had given his word. This was not the time to flinch . Pay him his pound of flesh and deal with him later .
The Bastard was shouting as the flames roared upward, "burn it, burn it all" Theon Greyjoy saw Smiler, kicking free of the stables with his mane ablaze . Smiler shattered with a sickening crunch beneath the lobstered steel .
He was a Lannister of Casterly Rock . Too weak to groan, he lay in his own filth and shut his eyes . Nearby someone was cursing the gods in a heavy, monotonous voice . He found himself outside the city, walking through a world without color .
All the bright dyes had leached out from the surcoats of the slain . They were garbed in shades of white and grey, and their blood was black and crusty . Metal and cloth were thrown in the back of a white wooden wagon, pulled by two tall black horses . The garments the sisters took from them were decorated with black hearts, grey lions, dead flowers, and pale ghostly stags .
Lord Tywin was a thousand leagues away, fighting Robb Stark in the west . He fell back into piss-scented sleep, dreaming his sister was standing over his bed . Tyrion thought venomously, we sent you to Bitterbridge . Sometimes he could hear them talking to one another, but he did not understand the words .
Podrick Payne stood over Tyrion with a candle . Tyrion raised a hand to his face, his every movement pained and fumbling . The lower half of his face was bandaged tightly, a mask of hardened plaster with holes for breathing and feeding.
Marillion was there, the singer who’d journeyed with them through the Mountains of the Moon . When the song was over, Jaime rose from his place, commanded Tyrion to kneel, and touched him first on one shoulder and then on the other with his golden sword . Shae was waiting to embrace him, calling him her giant of Lannister . Something felt wrong, turned around, though he could not have said what . He was alone once more . Pushing back the blankets, but the
The room whirled around him, all bare walls and dark shadows . He saw a chest he’d owned, an untidy pile of his clothing, his battered armor . The room was dank and cold, and he was burning .
“We have no servants,” she would remind me, and she would say, “You have me, I’m your servant.” He would tell her, “They kiss them.” That would always make her giggle . They kiss their fingers first, every one, and they kiss their wrists, yes, and inside their elbows . Sometimes she would sing to him. “I love your lips. I love your hands, and how you treat me gentle.” “I Love your cock, I love how it feels when it’s
Tyrion Lannister. It goes with my lord Tyrion . Tysha and Tyrion, all feigned, all for gold, she was a whore, Jaime’s gift, my lady of the lie. Her face seemed to fade away, dissolving behind a veil of tears, but even after she was gone he could still hear the faint, far-off sound of her voice calling his name .
Tyrion raised a hand to his face and made a ripping motion over the hardened mask . He pointed a finger at the maester, then coiled his hand into a fist . Crushing, choking, a promise, unless the fool did .
The maester discarded the bandages, still crusty with potion . It traced a line of fire all the way across Tyrion’s face, and twisted a burning poker up his nose . Tyrion thought, remembering a sudden flash of bright silver that seemed to pass just below his eyes .
Maester Ballabar poured half a cup of wine and held it to Tyrion’s swollen lips . By the end of the second cup, Tyrion Lannister felt strong enough to face his face . Three-quarters of his nose was gone, and a chunk of his lip was still in place .
Jaime had always said that Ser Mandon was the most dangerous of the Kingsguard, because his dead empty eyes gave no hint to his intentions . He’d known that Ser Meryn and Ser Boros were his sister’s, and Ser Osmund later, but he had let himself believe that the others were not wholly lost to honor . Tyrion touched his face, plucking at the proud flesh with blunt thick fingers .
Maester Ballabar bobbed his head and hurried out . “No, my lord, I . . you were wounded, near death.” “Here?” “Since the night of the battle. Lord Tywin saved us all. The smallfolk say it was King Renly’s ghost, but wiser men know better. It was your father and Lord Tyrell, with the Knight of Flowers and Lord Littlefinger. They rode through the ashes and took the us
Podrick Payne entered the bedchamber timid as a mouse . “I meant to stay by you, but the maester sent me away.” “Send him away. Talk’s hard. Need dreamwine. Dreamwine, not milk of the poppy. Go to Frenken, not Ballabar. Watch him make it. Bring it here.” Pod stole a glance at Tyrion’s face and just as quickly averted his eyes .
Ghost sat on his haunches watching, silent as ever . Will Shaggydog howl, far off in Winterfell, and Grey Wind and Nymeria, wherever they might be? Qhorin stood over him as the first flame rose up flickering from the shavings of bark and dead dry pine needles .
Ebben spat and muttered darkly of wargs and skinchangers . They saw the eagle soaring through the dusk on great blue-grey wings . Stonesnake unslung his bow, but the bird flew out of range .
Stonesnake's mare stumbled on the steep slope and broke a leg . Ghost ate well that day, and Qhorin insisted that the rangers mix some of the garron’s blood with their oats, to give them strength . The taste of that foul porridge almost choked Jon, but he forced it down .
Jon Snow swung slowly with the motion of his horseshoes on stone and the keening of the wind . When he slept, he did not dream; not of wolves, nor his brothers, nor anything . They were not words a man was like to forget. They changed your life forever .
Jon prayed that his father’s gods would give him the strength to die bravely . The garrons were near the end of their strength, Jon suspected . “The fire will soon go out,” Qhorin said .
Jon Halfhand gazed at him across the fire, his eyes lost in pools of shadow . “More wood. I want it bright and hot.” He gestured at the fire . The tree had been dead a long time, but it seemed to live again .
The sun was long gone, and only the cold silver shine of the half-moon remained to light their way over the treacherous ground that lay behind them . They went cautiously, moving as silent as man and horse could move, retracing their steps until they reached the mouth of a narrow defile . Jon gave one last wistful look to their distant fire, and followed the closer the cliffs pressed to either side .
The Halfhand commanded the Halfhand. The big man rode over the ice-slick stones, right into the curtain of water, and vanished . When he did not reappear, Jon put his heels into his horse and went after . He was through; drenched and shivering, but through . Ghost burst through the waterfall in an angry rush .
The moon shone through the curtain of falling water to lay a shimmering pale stripe across the sand, but after a time that too faded and went dark . Sleep came at last, and with it nightmares. He dreamed of burning castles and dead men rising unquiet from their graves .
Qhorin's mouth tightened as he followed its flight with his eyes . “We’ll feed the horses. They’ve served us bravely, poor beasts,” he said . The direwolf returned reluctantly to his side, tail held stiffly behind him .
Jon counted fourteen, with eight dogs . Their large round shields were made of skins stretched over woven wicker . About half of them hid their faces behind crude helms of wood and boiled leather .
Rattleshirt's numbers meant little in the close confines of the rocks where the black brothers had taken their stand . But another of his company edged a horse up beside him, one of the fighting women called spearwives . "We are four-and-ten to two, crows, and eight dogs to your wolf," she called .
Rattleshirt freed his battle-axe, brandishing it above his head . A skinny youth called, unlimbering a stone flail . “He’ll be my cloak before the sun is down.” Qhorin gave Jon a long look .
Jon Snow screamed: “The bird hates you, Jon Snow.” “And well he might. He was a man, before you killed him.” “Mance is not here,” Rattleshirt said . “If the crow would join the free folk, let him show us his prowess and prove the truth of him.” The words came hard, but Jon said them .
Jon was leaning away, and the blood gushed out of him . Jon pulled the direwolf away, but only the point of the bastard blade was stained . The light was already fading in Qhorin’s eyes . He knew, he thought numbly .
“A warg he may be,” said the Lord of Bones, “and a crow. I like him not.” “We all saw how eager you were to take it,” mocked Ragwyle . They burned Qhorin Halfhand where he’d fallen . Some of the wood was still green, and it burned slow and smoky .
The smoke and ash clouded his eyes, and in the sky he saw a great winged snake whose roar was a river of flame . Behind the cliffs tall fires were eating up the stars . Dogs barked and whined and horses screamed in terror .
His brother circled round him, then tore out his throat while the horse kicked feebly and rolled his eyes . They fought amidst the grass and dirt and falling ashes beside the dead horse, until his brother rolled on his back in submission, tail tucked low . He fed, and let his brother feed, and licked the blood off his black fur . The dark place was pulling at him by then, the house of whispers where all men were blind. He could feel its cold fingers
“You were thrashing, making terrible noises. What did you see?” “Winterfell.” His tongue felt strange and thick in his mouth . He felt her hand on his face, stroking back his hair . “You’re all sweaty,” he agreed .
Bran the beastling could reach Summer whenever he wanted, and once he had even touched Ghost and talked to Jon . “Nowhere, m’lord. I’ve had my fill o’ blundering in the black.” He heard the scrape of a heel on stone, turned his head toward the sound, but saw nothing . They all slept a lot, not only Bran. There was nothing else to do .
Osha blew softly. A long pale flame awoke, stretching upward like a girl on her toes . The light woke Rickon, who sat up yawning, as if the dead were rising as well . Lord Rickard Stark their father, Lord Willam and his brother Artos the Implacable, Lord Donnor and Lord Rodwell .
Meera strapped the wicker basket to Hodor’s back and helped lift Bran into it . He knew what awaited them above, but that did not make it any less fearful . It seemed to him that there was a sadness in Lord Eddard’s eyes, as if he did not want them to go .
Osha carried her long oaken spear in one hand and the torch in the other . A naked sword hung down her back, one of the last to bear Mikken’s mark . Meera had claimed Lord Rickard’s blade, though she complained that it was too heavy . But it was only a game, and Bran knew it .
Osha gave Meera the torch. “I’ll grope my way up.” For a time they could hear the sound of her footfalls, but they grew softer and softer until they fade away entirely . “Hodor,” said Hodor nervously. “Might be he can. Come on, then.” “Something is blocking the door. I can’t move it,” said Bran . It seemed a long while before they heard anything again .
Osha squatted beside him on the steps, but Bran could see that it was not budging . “Let Hodor try.” They had to pull Bran from his basket first, so he would not get squished . The Reeds had to carry Bran up the last few steps .
Stone and shattered gargoyles lay strewn across the yard . They fell just where I did, Bran thought when he saw them . Some crows were pecking at a body crushed beneath the tumbled stone . Yet behind, the broken tower still stood, no more burned than before .
It took the rest of the morning to make a slow circuit of the castle . The great granite walls remained blackened here and there by fire but otherwise untouched . But within, all was death and destruction .
Meera Reed ran after the direwolf, her shield and frog spear to hand . The rest of them trailed after, threading their way through smoke and fallen stones . A few pines along the edge of the wood had been scorched, but deeper in the damp soil had defeated the flames .
“You vanished . . in the woods . I sent the wolves on to make a trail, but we hid in Father’s tomb.” “The crypts.” Luwin chuckled, a froth of blood on his lips . When the maester tried to move, he gave a sharp gasp of pain .
Ser Rodrik, Leobald Tallhart, Lady Hornwood . all slain. Deepwood fallen, Moat Cailin, soon Torrhen’s Square . “Then where?” asked Osha. “White Harbor . the Umbers . I do not know . . war everywhere . each man against his neighbor, and winter coming . such folly, such black mad folly .
"Believe I’ll try the Hunter’s Gate," said Meera . "We’ll take the Hunter's Gate, and follow the kingsroad a ways," Meera said .
Winterfell remained as they had for hundreds of years . It was not dead, just broken. Like me, he thought. I’m not dead either . APPENDIX THE KINGS AND THEIR COURTS The KING ON THE IRON THRONE JOFFREY BARATHEON, the First of His Name .
Kingslayer, Lord Commander of the Kingsguard, a captive at Riverrun, —TYRION LANNISTER, acting Hand of the King, .Tyrion’s guards and sworn swords: —BRONN, ...SHAGGA SON OF DOLF, of the Stone Crows . —CHELLA DAUGHTER OF CHEYK, of The Black Ears —CRAWN SON of CALOR .
SER ILYN PAYNE, the King’s Justice, recently knighted, —TYREK LANNISTER, formerly squire to King Robert . —SER BALON SWANN, second son to Lord Gulian Swann of Stonehelm, and —LADY ERMESANDE HAYFORD .
King Joffrey’s banner shows the crowned stag of Baratheon, black on gold, and the lion of Lannister, gold on crimson, combatant . THE KING IN THE NARROW SEA STANNIS BARATHEON, the first of His Name, the older of King Robert’s brothers, formerly Lord of Dragonstone .
RED WOMAN, a priestess of R’hllor, the Heart of Fire, —SER DAVOS SEAWORTH, called the ONION KNIGHT and sometimes SHORTHAND, once a smuggler, captain of Black Betha .
King Stannis has taken for his banner the fiery heart of the Lord of Light . Within the heart is pictured the crowned stag of House Baratheon, in black .
King Renly’s banner is the crowned stag of House Baratheon of Storm’s End, black upon a gold field, the same banner flown by his brother King Robert . eldest son of Eddard Stark, Lord of Winterfell, and Lady Catelyn of House Tully, a boy of fifteen years .
PRINCESS SANSA, a maid of twelve, —Sansa’s direwolf, lady, driven off a year past . —PRINCE BRANDON, called Bran, heir to Winterfell and the North, is a boy of eight . His half brother, JON SNOW, was a bastard of fifteen years .
HALLIS MOLLEN, captain of guards for Winterfell, —JACKS, QUENT, SHADD, guardsmen under Mollen’s command —SER WENDEL MANDERLY, second son to the Lord of White Harbor . —PATREK MALLISTER, eldest daughter of Lady Maege and heir to Bear Island, called the SMALLJON . the squire, OLYVAR FREY, eighteen,
SER STEVRON FREY, eldest son of Lord Walder Frey and heir to the Twins . SER RYMAN’s son, BLACK WALDER, —MARTYN RIVERS, commanding the larger part of the northern host —ROBETT GLOVER .
SER HELMAN TALLHART, of Torrhen’s Square, —SER AENYS FREY, sole surviving son of Lord Rickard . SER WYLIS MANDERLY, heir to White Harbor . Lord Tywin Lannister dispossessed of her castle by Lord JARED Frey . HOWland’s daughter, MEERA, a maid of fifteen .
Leobald's wife, BERENA of House Hornwood, —Leobald’s son, BRANDON, a boy of ten . —Ser Helman's son BENFRED, heir to Torrhen’s Square . EDDARA, maid of nine, -LADY SYBELLE, wife to Robett Glover .
Prince of Dragonstone and heir to the Iron Throne, slain by King Robert on the Trident, —RHAENYS, Rhaegar’s daughter by Elia of Dorne, murdered during the Sack of King’s Landing . Her husband DROGO, a khal of the Dothraki, died of wounds gone bad . SER JORAH MORMONT, an exile knight, once Lord of Bear Island,
The banner of the Targaryens is the banner of Aegon the Conqueror who conquered six of Seven Kingdoms, founded the dynasty, and made the Iron Throne . The Arryn sigil is the moon-and-falcon, white, upon a sky-blue field . Their words are As High As Honor .
LORD YOHN ROYCE is Lord of Brightwater Keep's eldest son, SER ANDAR, —Lord Yohn's second son SER ROBAR, in service to King Renly, Robar the Red of the Rainbow Guard . SER WAYMAR, a man of the Night’s Watch, lost beyond the Wall .
SER AXELL, castellan of Dragonstone, —SER RYAM, died in a fall from a horse, SER Ryam’s daughter, QUEEN SELYSE, wed to King Stannis . SER HOSMAN NORCROSS, Delena’s son, EDRIC STORM, a bastard fathered by King Robert .
Lord Walder has known ninety-one name days, but only recently took his eighth wife, a girl seventy years his junior . It is said of him that he is the only lord in the Seven Kingdoms who could field an army out of his breeches .
Ser Dafyn Vance, —Maegelle’s daughter, MARIANNE, a maiden —Marsella Waynwood, died in childbed . Aenys’s son, AEGON BLOODBORN, an outlaw, was a squire captive at Riverrun .
Jeyne Beesbury, —Rhaegar’s son, ROBERT, a boy of thirteen, called WHITE WALDA . Ser Leslyn Haigh, Perriane’s . son, SER DONNEL HAIGH, .Perriane's son . SER JARED, m. Zhoe Blanetree, –Tytos’s daughter, ZIA, - a maid of fourteen,
Bellena Hawick, m. Ryella Royce, —Arwood’s daughter, RYELLA, a girl of five . The twin sons ANDROW and ALYN, 3, —LADY LYTHENE, 3 . Lord Lucias Vypren, .Lythene’s son, RICKARD WYLDE, 4, —Elyana’s . son, SER DAMON VYPREN, ...SYMON
Merrett’s son, WALDER, called LITTLE WAALDER a boy of eight, fostered at Winterfell as a ward of Lady Catelyn Stark, —SER GEREMY, drowned, m. Carolei Waynwood, .Geremy’s daughter, CYNTHEA, a girl of nine .
Ser Damon Paege, —Whalen’s daughter, MERIANNE, called MERRY, a girl of eleven, -LADY MORYA, m. Ser Flement Brax —Morya’s son, ROBERT BRAX, nine, fostered at Casterly Rock as a page . —Jon BRAx, whose son, TYTA THE MAID, was a maid of twenty-nine .
BALON GREYJOY Balon Greyjoy, Lord of the Iron Islands, previously led a rebellion against the Iron Throne, put down by King Robert and Lord Eddard Stark . Lord Balon sigil is a golden kraken upon a black field . His son Theon, raised at Winterfell, was one of Robb Stark’s supporters .
slain at Pyke during Greyjoy’s Rebellion, —MARON . ASHA, captain of the Black Wind, .THEON, a ward of Lord Eddard Stark . at Winterfell .
TYWIN LANNISTER, Lord of Casterly Rock, Warden of the West, Shield of Lannisport, and Hand of the King, commanding the Lannister host at Harrenhal . His wife, LADY JOANNA, a cousin, died in childbed, —their children: —SER JAIME, called the Kingslayer . —QUEEN CERSEI, widow of King Robert, twin to Jaime, Queen Regent and Protector
TION FREY, a squire, taken captive at the Whispering Wood, —SER TYGETT, his second brother, died of a pox . SER ROBERT BRAX, SER FORLEY PRESTER, of the Golden Tooth, was a captain of foragers .
HOUSE MARTELL DORNE was the last of the Seven Kingdoms to swear fealty to the Iron Throne . Blood, custom, and history all set the Dornishmen apart from the other kingdoms . When the war of succession broke out, the Prince of Dorne kept his silence and took no part .
Lord Tyrell of Highgarden declared his support for King Renly after Renly’s marriage to his daughter Margaery . The Tyrell sigil is a golden rose on a grass-green field . Their words are Growing Strong .
The Night’s Watch protects the realm, and is sworn to take no part in civil wars and contests for the throne . Traditionally, in times of rebellion, they do honor to all kings and obey none .
SER OTTYN WYTHERS, SER ALADALE WYNCH, GRENN, PYPAR, MATTHAR, ELRON, LARK called the SISTERMAN, rangers . SER ALLISER THORNE, master-at-arms, —LOMMY GREENHANDS, GENDRY, TARBER, HOT PIE, ARRY, orphan boys bound for the Wall .
SER DENYS MALLISTER, Commander, Shadow Tower called HALFHAND, a senior ranger, —DALBRIDGE, an elderly squire .
