The Iron Captain The Drowned Man Brienne The Queenmaker Arya Alayne Cersei Brienne Samwell Jaime Cersesei The Reaver Jaime Brienne Cat Of The Canals The Queen Regent The King At The Wall King Of The Isles And The North Other Houses Great And Small House Arryn House Florent House Frey House Hightower House Lannister House Martell House Stark House Tyrell Rebels And Rogues Smallfolk And Sworn Brothers Lordlings, Wander
Roone was the youngest of them, a chunky boy still two years shy of manhood . He slipped an arrow from his quiver and nocked it to his bowstring . “I should like that very much.” And I should like to sleep with Rosey’s arms around me .
Pate loved her hazel eyes and budding breasts, and the way she smiled every time she saw him . He loved the clean fresh smell of her, the way her hair curled behind her ears . One night she’d let him rub her feet and play with them .
Pate had dreamed of being a maester in a castle, in service to some open-handed lord who would honor him for his wisdom and bestow a fine white horse on him . "Too true," Lazy Leo had called out .
Archmaester Walgrave had forgotten more of ravencraft than most maesters knew . It would not have been the first time that good fortune had turned sour on him . He had once counted himself lucky to be chosen to help him with the ravens .
The Quill and Tankard never closed . For six hundred years it had been standing on its island in the Honeywine . It had never once had its doors been shut to trade .
“Oldtown is not the world,” declared Mollander, too loudly . The War of the Five Kings had touched them all, even in Oldtown . Archmaester Benedict insisted there had never been a war of five kings .
The Sphinx was always smiling, as if he knew some secret jape . It gave him a wicked look that went well with his pointed chin, widow’s peak, and dense mat of close-cropped jet-black curls . Alleras would make a maester too .
Archmaester Vaellyn had been at the Citadel for five years . It took Pate two years to summon up the courage to try again . "One last apple," promised Archmasser Ebrose, but sighs had proved just as painful as Vaelyn’s barbs .
Alleras was the same: his father was a Dornishman, his mother a black-skinned Summer Islander . It was Prince Rhaegar’s young son Aegon whose head was dashed against the wall by Lion of Lannister’s brave men . He gulped, slammed his empty tankard down, belched, and wiped his mouth with his hand .
Lazy Leo was slouching by the foot of the old plank bridge, draped in satin striped in green and gold . The wine he’d dribbled down his front had been a robust red, judging from the color of the spots . A lock of his ash-blond hair fell down across one eye .
Spotted Pate the pig boy was the hero of a thousand ribald stories . In the real world pig boys never fared so well . "You shame your House with every word you say," Alleras told him .
The Mad King’s daughter is alive, and she’s hatched herself three dragons . “You leave him be,” warned Mollander. “Such a chivalrous Hopfrog. As you wish. The Mage is inclined to believe them.” Armen pursed his lips in disapproval .
Vinegar Vaellyn had dubbed Marwyn the Mage . He had spent eight years in the east mapping distant lands . Archmaester Ryam had once counseled Pate, but Ryam’s ring and mask were yellow gold .
The glass candle is meant to represent truth and learning, rare and beautiful and fragile things . It is made in the shape of a candle to remind us that a maester must cast light wherever he serves . Wise men may grow arrogant in their wisdom .
“I know what I saw. The light was queer and bright, much brighter than any beeswax or tallow candle.” “Obsidian does not burn.” “Dragonglass,” Pate said. “The smallfolk call it dragonglass.” Somehow that seemed important. “They do,” mused Alleras, the Sphinx, “and if there are dragons in the world again...” “The grey sheep have closed their eyes, but the mastiff see
Archmaester Walgrave had no trouble telling one raven from another . Some days he seemed to think Pate was someone named Cressen . The alchemist might still be coming, and Pate meant to be here if he did.
Leo Tyrell had two names where Pate had only one . Ser Moryn Tyrell, Lord of Highgarden and Warden of the South, was Leo’s cousin . Dawn has come, and the alchemist has not .
Pate had heard the red priests cry those words a hundred times . He had even put the fiery heart of R’hllor on his banners in place of the crowned stag .
Oldtown was built in stone, and all its streets were cobbled down to the meanest alley . The city was never more beautiful than at break of day . West of the Honeywine, the Guildhalls lined the bank like a row of palaces .
A butcher’s cart rumbled past Pate down the river road, five piglets in the back squealing in distress . There would be no chain for him, no seat at a lord’s high table, no tall white horse to ride . The alchemist was standing over him when a voice said, “Good morrow, Pate.” He was on one knee, trying to wipe the mud off his robes .
Pate had found a bag of silver stags, a lock of yellow hair tied up in a ribbon and a knight’s gauntlet made of lobstered steel . The key was old and heavy, made of black iron; supposedly it opened every door at the Citadel . Only the archmaesters had such keys, but if Walgrave had hidden it, no one would ever have seen it again .
The alchemist made it walk across his knuckles, the way he had when Rosey brought the two of them together . The gold felt warm against his palm and bit down on it the way men do . Some of the old Valyrian scrolls down in the locked vaults were said to be the only surviving copies in the world .
The prophet was drowning men on Great Wyk when they came to tell him that the king was dead . The fourth was weak in faith and began to struggle as his lungs cried out for air . Aeron seized the naked boy by the shoulders and pushed his head back down as he tried to snatch a breath .
Aeron Damphair knew the Sparr, a hatchet-faced old man with watery eyes . His son Steffarion accompanied him with another youth whose dark red fur-lined cloak was pinned at the shoulder with an ornate brooch . Three tall sons had been born to Goodbrother’s wife late in life, after a dozen daughters .
Aeron Greyjoy splashed back onto land, across cold wet sand and sea-scoured pebbles . It draped his shoulders like a ragged, ropy cloak, and fell past his waist . He pried apart the boy’s cold lips with his fingers and gave Emmond the kiss of life, and again, until the sea came gushing from his mouth .
Steffarion Sparr had been given to the Drowned God soon after birth he had no doubt . He knew the manner of it too, a quick dip into a tub of seawater that scarce wet the infant’s head . “I was drowned as a boy,” Aeron said, “and my son upon his name day.” “That is no true drowning” He said .
Aeron Greyjoy was a prophet. He did not suffer petty lords ordering him about like some thrall . "These are not matters I would speak of here before these others," the Sparr said .
Aeron Greyjoy had seen his eldest brother not a moon’s turn past . He had returned to the Iron Islands from harrying the Stony Shore . Balon’s grey hair had gone half-white whilst the priest had been away .
Aeron shoved a bare black foot into a stirrup and swung himself onto the saddle . He was not fond of horses—they were creatures from the green lands and helped to make men weak—but necessity required that he ride . The way was rough, up hills and woods and stony defiles, along a narrow track that oft seemed to disappear beneath the horse’s hooves .
Harlon, Quenton, and Donel had been born from the loins of Quellon Greyjoy . Balon, Euron, Victarion, Urrigon, and Aeron were the sons of his second, a Sunderly of Saltcliffe . For a third wife Quellelon took a girl from the green lands .
Aeron had been the last and least of the four krakens, Balon the eldest and boldest, a fierce and fearless boy who lived only to restore the ironborn to their ancient glory . At thirteen he could run a longship’s oars and dance the finger dance as well as any man in the isles . He slew his first man there and took his first two salt wives .
Gorold Goodbrother was talking quietly with a slim man in fine grey robes . He wore about his neck a chain of metals that marked him for a maester of the Citadel . “You as well, Gran. Maester Murenmure will stay,” insisted Aeron .
Balon sent him off two years ago, and swore it would be his life if he returned . Aeron Damphair did not weigh his words . “Only a godly man may sit the Seastone Chair. The Crow’s Eye worships naught but his own pride.” Aye .
“We are ironborn, the sons of the sea, chosen of the Drowned God. No woman may rule over us, nor any godless man.” “Euron is the elder brother...” began the maester . “Will it come to war between them?” asked Aeron .
Gorold Goodbrother offered him the comforts of the castle for the night, but the priest declined . He seldom slept beneath a castle roof, and never so far from the sea . Aeron closed his eyes and said a silent prayer .
A flying axe took off half of Urri’s hand when he was ten-and-four . It was his axe that sheared off the hand whilst his father and his elder brothers were away at war . Lord Quellon’s third wife had been a Piper of Pinkmaiden Castle, a girl with big soft breasts .
Aeron Greyjoy had been a sack of wine with legs . He would sing, juggled, rode horses, and could drink more than all the Wynches and the Botleys . The Drowned God gives every man a gift, even him .
Greydon Goodbrother left him when the sun was up, to take the news of Balon’s death to his cousins in their towers at Downdelving, Crow Spike Keep, and Corpse Lake . The Storm God in his wrath plucked Balon from his castle and cast him down, and now he feasts beneath the waves in the Drowned God’s watery halls .
Aeron Damphair was restless in his driftwood shelter, roofed over with black weeds from the sea . The clouds rolled in to cloak the moon and stars, and the darkness lay as thick upon the sea as it did upon his soul . A younger brother owes obedience to an elder, and Victarion was not a man to sail against tradition .
Aeron Damphair broke his fast on a broth of clams and seaweed cooked above a driftwood fire . A wave smashed against his chest, staggering him, and the next broke over his head . He could taste the salt on his lips and feel the god around him .
The Merlyn was a bald round fleshy man who styled himself “Lord” in the manner of the green lands . It was there that Aeron Damphair stood, so all his school might see him, and hear the words he had to say .
“The Storm God in his wrath plucked Balon from his castle and cast him down, and now he feasts beneath the waves.” He raised his hands. “The iron king is dead! Yet a king will come again!” The drowned men began to slam their driftwood cudgels one against the other . “Damphair King! Give us Damphair!” Aeron shook his head.
Aeron pointed at the Merlyn’s fat white face . "Look not to me, nor to the laws of men, but to the sea." Take yourself to Old Wyk, where stood the Grey King’s Hall .
A kingsmoot chose Urras Ironfoot for High King, and placed a driftwood crown upon his brows . He raised his bony hands on high again. “Listen! Listen to the waves!” they shouted .
Areo Hotah swung his longaxe sideways to block the way . The head was on a shaft of mountain ash six feet long . Obara Sand always walked too fast .
Areo Hotah was the eldest Sand Snake, a big-boned woman near to thirty . She was a mottled sandsilk cloak of dun and gold, her riding clothes were old brown leather . On one hip she wore a coiled whip, across her back a round shield of steel and copper .
In Sunspear, on the Broken Arm, along the Greenblood, in the mountains . Women tear their hair and men cry out in rage . The captain knew the prince he guarded .
Areo Hotah jerked his longaxe upright and stepped to one side . Caleotte was no more than five feet tall and bald as an egg . He had been here before the captain, had even served the prince’s mother .
Doran Martell had swollen and reddened his joints grotesquely . His left knee was an apple, his right a melon, and his toes turned to dark red grapes . Words are like arrows, Arianne. Once loosed, you cannot call them back.
Three were building a sand castle with a great spike that resembles the Spear Tower of the Old Palace . A score or more had gathered in the big pool, to watch the battles as smaller children rode through the waist-deep shallows on the shoulders of the larger and tried to shove each other into the water . “Your father played that same game once, as I did before him,” said the prince .
“I did not come to you for comfort.” Her voice was full of scorn . “The day my father came to claim me, my mother did not wish for me to go. ‘She is a girl,’ she said, ‘and I do not think that she is yours. I had a thousand other men.’ He tossed his spear at my feet and gave my mother the back of his hand across the face, so she began to weep . ‘Girl or boy, we fight our battle
Prince Doran’s gout had not been half so bad . In those days he had still walked, leaning on a stick and grimacing with every step . Dorne must be reminded that it still has a prince .
Areo Hotah had come to Dorne to attend his own princess . But there the likeness ended . The captain had left Norvos and its bearded priests .
Areo Hotah had sworn vows at six-and-ten, the day he wed his axe . He was still groping for some words to say when another orange fell with a heavy splat .
Doran groaned as the captain moved him to a great bed with crisp cool linen sheets in a chamber by the sea . The captain’s sleeping cell adjoined his prince’s . Keep your longaxe sharp, the bearded priests told him, the day they branded him .
Areo Hotah smelled the stench of burning hair as the bearded priest touched the brand to the center of his chest . The pain had been so fierce that he thought his heart might stop, yet his heart had not flinched . He lay his ash-and-iron wife down on the bed, and stretched out on his straw-stuffed mattress .
Areo Hotah gave Doran a shirt of copper scales as befit his rank, and a billowing cloak of dun-and-yellow sandsilk to keep the sun off the copper . The day promised to be hot, and the captain had long ago discarded the heavy horsehair cape and studded leather tunic he had worn in Norvos . Elsewise the sun beating down on the metal would have his head pounding before they saw the palace
Areo Hotah took his familiar place at the left hand of the prince, resting his longaxe on a shoulder as he walked . The road from Sunspear to the Water Gardens ran beside the sea, so they had a cool fresh breeze to soothe them as they made their way across a sparse red-brown land of stone and sand .
Lady Nym fell in beside him, slowing her golden mare to match the litter’s pace . “May I ride with you to Sunspear?” Prince Doran replied, though he did not sound glad to the captain’s ears .
Lady Nym was no less deadly, though she kept her knives well hidden . "Only royal blood can wash out my father’s murder," Nym said .
Oberyn laughed, and said, ‘When have I provoke any man...unduly? You would do better to warn the Lannisters against provoking me’ . “Were it you they’d killed, my father would have led his banners north before your corpse was cold.” “No more should you doubt this, my prince—my sisters and I shall not wait ten-and-seven years for our vengeance” .
Sunspear was built from mud and straw, and colored brown and dun . The ancient stronghold of House Martell stood at the easternmost end of a little jut of stone and sand, surrounded on three sides by the sea . Stables and inns and wineinks and pillow houses had grown up west of those, many enclosed by walls of their own .
Areo Hotah boomed out, thumping the butt of his longaxe on the bricks . The guards were shoving people aside to clear a path for the prince’s litter . One boy darted past the spearmen with a half-rotten pomegranate in one hand .
Doran Martell stayed cloaked within his silken walls until the thicker walls of the castle swallowed all of them . Little Myrcella Baratheon stood with her septa and Ser Arys of the Kingsguard, sweltering in his white-enameled scales . Princess Arianne strode to the litter on snakeskin sandals laced up to her thighs .
Hotah bore him up the steps of the Tower of the Sun to the great round chamber beneath the dome . There were two seats on the dais, near twin to one another, except that one had the Martell spear inlaid in gold upon its back . The captain placed the prince beneath the spear and stepped away .
Lady Tyene's voice was gentle, and she looked as sweet as summer strawberries . "I made this for you, Uncle." "I am not like to forget your father." "He is so kind... but a headsman’s sword is no fit end for brave Ser Gregor."
Trystane and Myrcella are so innocent, I thought perhaps white gold... with emeralds . The prince snorted as if he were some fool . "You think too much, Uncle." "Some men think because they are afraid to do." "I must pray that I never see you frightened, Uncle. You might forget to breathe."
Doran Martell hurried to the dais . He looked at the palm first, then gently turned it upside down to sniff at the back of the prince’s fingers .
“You have it.” Serve. Obey. Protect. Simple vows for a simple man. “I want this done as quickly and as quietly as possible, with no blood spilled.” “You will find my brother’s daughters, take them into custody, and confine them in the cells atop the Spear Tower.” “The Sand Snakes?” The captain’s throat was dry . “All... all... all eight, my prince? The little ones, also?” The prince considered. “As my prince commands
The lords and ladies began to chuckle too, hiding their smiles behind their hands . Only then did the queen realize she was naked . Blood ran red down her legs, as steel teeth gnawed at her buttocks .
I am dreaming still, Cersei thought. I have not woken, nor has my nightmare ended . She looked down at her hands, turning them over to make sure all her fingers were still there . I drank too much last night, these fears are only humors born of wine .
Ser Jaime sent a dozen men to look in on him. His Grace is sleeping peaceful. It did not please her . Ser Loras might be as pretty as a maiden’s dream, but underneath his white cloak he was Tyrell to the bone.
Blount surrendered the lantern to Ser Osmund . Cersei was not displeased to see the back of him . Father should never have restored him to the white .
Casterly Rock was hers now, and all the power of House Lannister . The outer castle was so hushed that she could have believed all its people dead. They should be . It is not fitting for a man to die alone. Such a person deserves a retinue to attend his needs in hell.
Ser Meryn Trant pushed the door open, and the bags beneath his eyes made him look still half-asleep . Red Lester muttered a condolence as she passed . The steps, she told herself, this cursed tower has too many steps .
Ser Osmund had spoken of a secret door gaped open behind the ashes . A man would need to crawl. But Tyrion is only half a man . There had always been talk of secret passages within the Red Keep . He still has adherents in the city .
Catelyn Stark had clawed her own face to bloody ribbons when the Freys slew her precious Robb . The queen could feel her nails digging into her palms . "How could you leave him like this? My father was Hand to three kings, as great a man as ever strode the Seven Kingdoms."
Ser Jaime went to see how deep it goes. One of you should have gone. He has no business climbing ladders . Puckens and Shortear returned with a grey-haired man between them . He was tall, though slightly stooped, with crinkles around his bold blue eyes .
A chain of linked golden hands was half-buried in the flesh of her throat, twisted so tight it had broken the skin . Cersei was naked, cold, and pink... save for her face, which had turned as black as Joff’s had at his wedding feast . She could see Tyrion leering, his mouth twisted into a monkey’s grin beneath the ruin of his nose .
Ser Osmund had faint scratches on his cheek where another of Tyrion’s whores had clawed him . “I’ll have the tongue of any man who dares to say she was. Do you understand me?” Osney and Osfryd exchanged a look . Shae, her name was Shae .
A man alone could not have killed her father . She imagined Tyrion creeping between the walls like a monstrous rat . He hugged her, his good hand pressing against her back .
Jaime’s arm rose to catch the blow, cat-quick... but this cat had a cripple’s stump in place of a right hand . The sound brought their uncle to his feet . Jaime inclined his head in apology .
Mace Tyrell had to know that he would never rule the Seven Kingdoms so long as Tywin Lannister lived . It still made her furious to think that Father had agreed to betroth Tommen to Margaery Tyrell . The girl is twice his age and twice widowed .
Lord Tywin had never had any love for the simpering master of whisperers . Ser Boros Blount was red-faced and puffing from his headlong rush up the steps . She had forgotten about Varys. He should be here. He is always here .
Ser Boros tried to take her by the arm, but the queen recoiled from his touch . It is blood I need, not water, Tyrion’s blood, the blood of the valonqar . Cersei closed her eyes, and saw the dwarf grinning at her .
The blacksmith had not seen her either, nor the septon in the village sept, the swineherd with his pigs, nor any of the other simple folk that the Maid of Tarth found amongst the daub-and-wattle huts of Rosby . If Sansa came this way, someone must have seen her . It was at Duskendale that she would find her quarry, she told herself .
if she were still in King’s Landing, the gold cloaks would have turned her up . For her, the answer came easy. She would make her way back to Tarth, to her father . Sansa’s father had been beheaded whilst she watched .
A young septon galloped past upon a palfrey as fine as any lord’s . A train of oxcarts lumbered south with grain and sacks of wool . She passed a swineherd driving pigs and an old woman in a horse litter .
The younger girl was long dead, Jaime claimed . The Arya the Lannisters sent north to marry Roose Bolton’s bastard was a fraud . It left only Sansa. Brienne had to find her .
Hedge knights had an unsavory reputation . A hedge knight and a robber knight are two sides of the same sword . "Might I know your names, sers?" Ser Creighton Longbough .
Ser Creighton Longbough bore gold and ermine gyronny . He was sixty if he was a day, his face pinched and narrow beneath the hood of a patched roughspun mantle .
Ser Jaime Longbough lost his hand and Cleos Frey his life . "My steed served me well enough on the Blackwater," Ser Creighton insisted . “The likes of me?” Brienne asked .
Renly Baratheon had been more than a king to her . She had loved him since first he came to Tarth on his leisurely lord’s progress . But she had been no older than Sansa, more afraid of sniggers than swords .
"By the Seven, then. I did no harm to King Renly. I swear it by the Mother, and ask that he might judge me justly." "She swears well, for a maid," Ser Creighton allowed. "Well, if she’s lied, the gods will sort her out." Brienne paced restlessly around the little camp, listening to the crackle of the fire .
She wondered whether Sansa Stark was cold as well, wherever she might be . If half the tales were true, the dwarf was the cruelest Lannister of all . In King’s Landing, Brienne had hunted down a certain Brella .
Ser Illifer the Penniless bared his battered blade and reined in his horse to wait their coming . It felt good to have companions on the road, even such companions as these two.
A group of begging brothers led the way, scruffy bearded men in roughspun robes . Behind them marched threescore ragged men, women, and children, a spotted sow, and several sheep . In their midst there rolled a two-wheeled wayn of grey and splintered wood, piled high with skulls and broken bits of bone .
The sparrow is the humblest and most common of birds . He had a lean sharp face and a short beard, grizzled grey and brown . His feet were bare and black, gnarled and hard as tree roots . It is time for all anointed knights to forsake their worldly masters .
The septon lifted one of the traces of the wayn upon his shoulder, and began to pull . The begging brothers sat upon their horses as the procession moved slowly past .
Ser Creighton Longbough, fresh from battle on the Blackwater, was a portly knight of forty years . The merchant considered her doubtfully . “My lady, you should be safe at home.” “Why do you wear such unnatural garb?” She dared not mention Sansa’s name, with her accused of regicide .
Ser Shadrich turned his shield to show her his sigil, a large white mouse with fierce red eyes, on bendy brown and blue . “I find enough. I save my valor for the battlefield, woman.” Brienne kept her face a mask .
Ser Shadrich said she was searching for her sister, a highborn girl . "I know no Sansa Stark," she insisted . “I am searching for my sister. Pray, who is this knight who travels with your sister?” she said .
In her saddlebags she’d found a purse fat with silver stags and copper stars . It was signed in a childish hand by Tommen, the First of His Name, the Rhoynar and the First Men, and Lord of the Seven Kingdoms .
The innkeep set the tankards down one by one, slopping ale at every step . The merchant indicated Ser Creighton and Ser Illifer . "I shall judge its goodness for myself," Hibald announced .
Ser Jaime Lannister lost his hand to a Qohorik sellsword . He was weak from his imprisonment, and chained at the wrists . It had been all that she could do to keep his blade at bay .
Oathkeeper was a sword fit for a hero . When she was small, her nurse had filled her ears with tales of valor . She held the blade and said a silent prayer to the Crone .
Her candle burned out over the Old Stone Bridge, and the inn grew so still that she could hear the murmur of the river . She eased the door open, listened, made her way barefoot down the steps . Outside she donned her boots and hurried to the stables to saddle her bay mare .
Sam had not eaten since that bowl of bean-and-bacon soup with Pyp and Grenn . It was when he spied the mouse feasting on the bread crumbs . The mouse was half as long as his pinky finger, with black eyes and soft grey fur .
Septon Jorquen's detailed account of the nine years that Orbert Caswell had served as Lord Commander of the Night’s Watch . There was a page for each day of his term, every one of which seemed to begin, “Lord Orbert rose at dawn and moved his bowels,” except for the last . The mouse was gone in half a heartbeat, skittery-quick . Sam was relieved. Squishing the poor little thing would have given him nightmares
Sam grimaced at the pins and needles in his calves when bent over a book . At the tenth he stopped to shift the books to his right arm . Aemon had Clydas, to be sure, but Sam was younger .
Castle Black’s keeps and towers rose about him, dwarfed by the icy immensity of the Wall . A small army was crawling over the ice a quarter of the way up, where a new switchback stair was creeping upward to meet the remnants of the old one . Samwell Tarly hated steps, he hated the winch cage more .
Lord Snow wishes to speak with you as soon as he is done with Craster’s wife.” “Gilly.” “If my wet nurse had looked like her, I’d still be on the teat. Mine had whiskers.” “Most goats do,” called Pyp . “Don’t mention mice to Grenn. He’s terrified of mice.” “You’d be too scared to eat one.” “When I was a lad, we only ate mice on special feast days
Ser Alliser called him Aurochs, and every day he seemed to grow into the name a little more . He had come to the Wall big but slow and thick of neck, thick of waist, red of face, and clumsy . Pyp twisted him around into some folly, but hours of work with sword and shield had flattened his belly, hardened his arms, broadened his chest .
“I don’t have time for archery today, I need to go see Jon.” “Jon? Jon? Do we know anyone named Jon, Grenn?” “He means the Lord Commander.” “The Wall is his, and all that goes with it.” “A man has duties to his friends as well. If not for us, Janos Slynt might be our lord commander.
Sam had asked him why he spent so much time at swordplay . Longclaw is Valyrian steel, but I’m not. The Halfhand could have killed me as easy as you swat a bug . Sam was fond of porridge, especially when it was sweetened with honey .
Gilly was swallowed by the folds of Sam’s old cloak, her face half-hidden by its hood, but shivering all the same . Gilly pulled loose from him. “They’re good, Sam. Good.” “Between the two of them it’s a wonder you can sleep,” Sam said pleasantly . “I have to go. It’s past time that I fed them. I’ll be leaking all over myself if I don’t
Sam cursed himself for a clumsy oaf as he smoothed the pages down and brushed them off . A Sworn Brother of the Night’s Watch should not be feeling the sorts of things that Gilly made him feel, especially when she would talk about her breasts and... “Lord Snow is waiting.” A ringmail rested on his workbench, half-completed .
Sam thrust his arm into the sack beside the door and came out with a handful of kernels . The raven took one from his palm, pecking so hard that Sam yelped and snatched his hand back . Faint scars still marked Jon’s cheek, where an eagle had tried to rip his eye out .
The Old Bear begged the Iron Throne for help a hundred times . They sent him Janos Slynt. No letter will make the Lannisters love us better . “Only to defend the Wall, not in his rebellion.” Jon took the letter back .
if the Lannisters should prevail and Lord Tywin decides that we betrayed the king by aiding Stannis, it could mean the end of the Night’s Watch. “Stannis has the Karstarks. If not... my lord, even a paper shield is better than none.” “The Blackwater was one battle. Robb won all his battles and still lost his head.” Sam realized, but he can’t.
Sam heated a stick of black wax over a candle and dribbled some onto the parchment . “I will.” Sam hesitated. “My lord, if I might ask... I saw Gilly leaving. She was almost crying.” “Val sent her to plead for Mance again.” “Oh.” Val was the sister of the woman the King-beyond-the-Wall had taken for his queen.
Mance’s blood is no more royal than mine own . He’s a brigand, nothing more . There’s no power in the blood . Sam bobbed his head. “Well, that’s good, my lord.” Sam had read that somewhere .
The oldest histories we have were written after the Andals came to Westeros . The First Men only left us runes on rocks . There are archmaesters at the Citadel who question all of it .
The Others come when it is cold, most of the tales agree . Sometimes they appear during snowstorms and melt away when the skies clear . Some stories speak of them riding corpses of dead animals . The one that killed Small Paul was riding a dead horse .
Jon sounded sad. “You need to get your things together, Sam. You’re going with Gilly.” “Oldtown?” It came out in a squeak. Horn Hill was close to Oldtown. The notion made him light-headed. My father. “Clydas. He’s been with Aemon for years.” “His life will be at risk. I am aware of that, Sam, but the risk is greater here. The Blackbird will deliver you to Braavos.
Sam, the Night’s Watch has hundreds of men who can loose an arrow, but only a handful who can read or write . "My lord, I... my work is here, the books..." "...will be here when you return to us."
Sam had sobbed himself to sleep, manacled hand and foot to a wall . The chain around his throat was so tight it broke the skin . When he rolled the wrong way in his sleep it would cut off his breath .
You’ve faced more things this past year than most men face in a lifetime . You can face the Citadel, but you’ll face it as a Sworn Brother of the Night’s Watch . I am the sword in the darkness, but he was wretched with a sword, and the darkness scared him .
Maester Aemon was stumbling through mud and patches of old snow toward his chambers . I could hide in the vaults amongst the books . The last place they would look for him was beyond the Wall, but that was madder .
Sam was as trapped as he was. He will die at sea, he thought, despairing . Sam found himself saddling the mare he’d ridden from Horn Hill and leading her toward the lichyard beside the eastern road . "You’re a man who appreciates cooking, Slayer," the cook had said .
Maester Aemon was too frail to ride a horse, so a wayn had been made ready for him . The second wayn would carry their clothing and possessions, along with a chest of rare old books . Sam had spent half the night searching for them, though he’d found only one in four .
A line of pale snot ran from Maester Aemon’s nose . He wiped it away with the back of his glove . “I will.” “Make as good a time as you can, but take no foolish risks.” “You do the same, m’lord,” Gilly said solemnly .
Sam lingered beside Clydas and Dolorous Edd and Jon Snow . “Your boat’s not like to sink, I don’t think. Boats only sink when I’m aboard.” Jon smiled a strange, sad smile .
Arya stood at the prow, one hand resting on the gilded figurehead, a maiden with a bowl of fruit . She told the captain as much, but even the iron coin did not sway him . When she escaped Harrenhal, Lem and Anguy and Tom o’ Sevens took her captive and dragged her to the Twins instead . It was Jaqen who had given her the Iron coin .
Old Nan had told them stories of the Titan back in Winterfell . He was a giant as tall as a mountain, and when he stood in danger he would wake with fire in his eyes, his rocky limbs grinding and groaning as he waded out into the sea to smash the enemies .
Old Nan and Maester Luwin were both dead, most like, and Sansa too . It did no good to think of them. All men must die . Most of the Daughter’s crew had a smattering of the Common Tongue from nights ashore in Oldtown .
The old gods are dead, she told herself, with Mother and Father and Robb and Bran and Rickon, all dead . A long time ago, she remembered her father saying that when the cold winds blow the lone wolf dies and the pack survives . The Titan’s eyes seemed brighter now, and farther apart .
The Titan’s Daughter cleaved through grey-green waters on billowing purple wings . There, where Denyo pointed, a line of stony ridges rose sudden from the sea . But dead ahead the sea had broken through, and there the Titan towered . His legs bestrode the gap, one foot planted on each mountain .
Arya could see the arrow slits in the great bronze breastplate, and stains and speckles on the Titan’s arms and shoulders where the seabirds nested . The Titan gave a mighty roar, so loud it drowned out even the captain’s voice and the crash of the waves against those pine-clad ridges . She could taste salt where the spray had touched her face .
Arya could see dozens of galleys tied up at quays and perched on launching slips . They seemed to skim upon the water like dragonflies, their pale oars flashing . The captain shouted to them and their own captains shouting back .
Ahead stretched a broad expanse of pea-green water rippled like a sheet of colored glass . From its wet heart arose the city proper, a great sprawl of domes and towers and bridges, grey and gold and red . The only hills here were the ones that men had raised of brick and granite, bronze and marble .
Arya had crossed the narrow sea to get here, but if the captain had asked she would have told him she wanted to stay aboard the Titan’s Daughter . She could learn to splice ropes and reef the sails and steer a course across the great salt seas . The galleas had no need of a second boy .
The Titan’s Daughter dwindled in their wake, while Yorko grew larger with every stroke of Yorko’s oars . A harbor was visible off to her right, a tangle of piers and quays crowded with big-bellied whalers out of Ibben, swan ships from the Summer Isles, and more galleys than a girl could count .
Yorko swung them north of the docks and down the gullet of a great canal . They passed under the arches of an carved stone bridge, decorated with half a hundred kinds of fish and crabs and squids . Some of the houses were built above the waterways, she saw, turning the canals into a sort of tunnel . Slender boats slid in and out among them, wrought in the shapes of water serpents with painted heads .
Arya had spied from the lagoon, a mighty mass of snow-white marble topped by a huge silvered dome . A pair of marble maidens flanked its gates, tall as the Sealords, supporting a crescent-shaped lintel . The Lord of Light is their god, red R’hllor.
A small canal ran between the Warren’s looming lichen-covered walls . They passed through a tunnel and out again into the light . Yorko grunted. They went around a bend and beneath another bridge . A flight of stone steps led from its doors down to a covered dock .
Arya watched him row back the way they’d come, until he vanished in the shadows of the bridge . Needle’s hilt was made of weirwood pale as bone, the right of gleaming ebony . At the top she found a set of carved wooden doors twelve feet high .
A few candles burned along the walls, but gave so little light that Arya couldn't see her own feet . The septs of Westeros were seven-sided, with seven altars for the seven gods, but here there were more gods than seven . Around their feet red candles flickered, as dim as distant stars .
Arya drank deep, and dropped the cup into the pool with a soft plop . He pushed himself to his feet, swaying, holding his belly . She saw the dark stain below his belt, spreading as she watched . A little girl in a cowled robe seemed to engulf her .
The hooded man was tall, enveloped in a larger version of the black-and-white robe the girl was wearing . He had seven faces beyond count, little one, as many faces as there are stars in the sky . In Braavos, men worship as they will... but at the end of every road stands Him of Many Faces, waiting .
Arya kissed him where his nose should be and plucked the grave worm from his eye to eat it, but it melted like a shadow in her hand . A cold rain was falling, turning the walls and ramparts of the Red Keep dark as blood . The queen held the king’s hand and led him firmly across the muddy yard .
Cersei Swyft had risen an hour before dawn to bathe and fix her hair . She did not intend to let the rain destroy her efforts . "The gods are weeping for grandfather. Lady Jocelyn says the raindrops are their tears."
The litter made its slow way down Aegon’s High Hill . Two Kingsguardsmen rode before them, white knights on white horses with white cloaks hanging sodden from their shoulders . King’s Landing had never loved Lord Tywin, though .
Lord Tywin gave him a crown to replace the one lost when the mob killed the previous High Septon . The old man’s spotted hand looked like a chicken claw as it poked from a sleeve encrusted with golden scrollwork and small crystals . Cersei knelt on the wet marble and kissed his fingers and bid Tommen to do the same .
Lord Tywin Lannister’s body rested upon a stepped marble bier . It always angered him to see Jaime all in white . The stubble covered his jaw and cheeks, and gave his face a rough, uncouth look .
Cersei led the king up three short steps, to kneel beside the body . The boy swiped the tears away with the back of his hand . He had her eyes as large and bright as Jaime’s eyes had been when he was Tommen’s age .
Lord Tywin Lannister wore his finest plate, heavy steel enameled a deep, dark crimson . His rondels were golden sunbursts; a golden lioness crouched upon each shoulder . Upon his chest lay a longsword in a gilded scabbard studded with rubies .
The Lord of Casterly Rock deserved rainbows. He had been a great man. I shall be greater, though. A thousand years from now, when the maesters write about this time, you shall be remembered only as Queen Cersei’s sire.
Lord Gyles was coughing more than usual and covering his nose with a square of red silk . Margaery looked very like Joff’s widow and Tommen’s wife-to-be . Cersei studied their faces, wondering who is the most fearful, the most wanton, the hungriest for favor?
Hallyne the Pyromancer promised her that a flaming hand would burn in the sky above the city on the day her father’s bones went west . Lord Gyles hired a master stonecarver to make a statue of Lord Tywin, to stand eternal vigil beside the Lion Gate . Ser Lambert Turnberry appeared with a patch over his right eye, swearing he would wear it until he could bring her the head of her dwarf brother .
Tommen had fallen into the clutches of Margaery Tyrell and her grandmother, she saw . The Queen of Thorns was so short that for an instant Cersei took her for another child . When the queen reminded him of their meeting later, Ser Kevan gave a weary nod and begged leave to withdraw . But Lancel lingered, the very picture of a man with one foot in the grave .
"I know you will do many noble deeds in Darry," Lancel nodded, plainly miserable . "When it seemed that I might die, my father brought the High Septon to pray for me. He is a good man." Cersei wondered how he intended to atone for her .
Lady Merryweather was too beautiful by half; long-legged and full-breasted, with smooth olive skin, ripe lips, huge dark eyes, and thick black hair that always looked as if she’d just come from bed . Mace Tyrell was no more than ten years older than Cersei, yet she thought of him as her father’s age, not her own . It is his daughter standing here before you .
The queen smiled. Let him read into that as much as he likes. “My son Willas is an able lad,” the man replied, refusing to take her perfectly good hint . Garth the Gross has agreed to serve as master of coin, as your lord father wished .
Lady Olenna gave Cersei a toothless smile . "Your council chambers will smell sweeter with Lord Gyles, though I daresay that coughing would drive me to distraction. I do abhor foul smells. I am flatulent, that cannot be gainsaid.
Cersei promised herself as the Queen of Thorns tottered off between her towering guardsmen . The old woman was twice as clever as her lord son, that was plain . He rescued her son from Margaery and her cousins, and made for the doors .
Lord Gyles coughed into a square of red silk, as if to hide the blood in his spittle . Petyr Baelish would be allowed to remain Lord Protector of the Vale for very long, with Lysa Arryn dead . It was a relief to see the gates of the Red Keep looming large before her .
The black cells have not oft been occupied in recent years . The other turnkeys were afraid of him, it seems . He had no friends, no kin. Nor did he drink or frequent brothels .
Mace Tyrell had been one of Tyrion’s judges, and had called loudly for Father’s death . “You will not speak of this with anyone,” Qyburn commanded . Is this as big a fool as Pycelle?
Ser Gregor is dying of the venom, but slowly, and in exquisite agony . His squire tells me that he is plagued by blinding headaches and oft quaffs the milk of the poppy as lesser men quaff ale . It is a wonder that the man is still alive, if truth be told,” the queen suggested .
The grey sheep shamed me and forced me into exile... but I understand the nature of life and death better than any man in Oldtown.” “Do you?” That intrigued her. “Very well. The Mountain is yours. Do what you will with him, but confine your studies to the black cells. When he dies, bring me his head. My father promised it to Dorne. Prince Doran would no doubt prefer to kill Gregor himself .
Ser Kevan was fair-skinned and blond, though at five-and-fifty he had lost most of his hair . He reminded her of some old mastiff, but a faithful old one was the thing that she needed . "You need a Hand," she said, "and Jaime has refused you." "Mace Tyrell is older."
"You would be a fool to make Mace Tyrell your Hand," Ser Kevan admits . "You were unwise to shame him in front of half the court." "Better that than suffer another Tyrell on the council." Cersei refused to think about the dead whore in his bed .
"You were. Tywin did not intend that you continue in that role. He told me of his plans to send you back to the Rock and find a new husband for you," Cersei could feel her anger rising . "If you are resolved against another marriage, I will not force it on you," her uncle was unmoved .
Ser Kevan rose with a ponderous dignity. “Your Grace.” Wine trickled down his cheeks and dripped from his beard . “You are no more than one of my father’s household knights.” “I hold no lands, that is true. But I have certain incomes, and chests of coin set aside. My own father forgot none of his children when he died, and Tywin knew how to reward good service. You would be wise not to take me lightly, Your Grace... and
Lord Tyrell cannot take offense if you choose one of his own bannermen as Hand . Both Tarly and Rowan are able men... and loyal. Name either one, and you make him yours . You strengthen yourself and weaken Highgarden, yet Mace will likely thank you for it .
Ser Loras listened to the echoes of their footfalls die away . His back ached from the weight of his armor, and his legs felt almost numb . He had more feeling in the hand he’d lost than in the rest of the body that remained to him .
Ser Ilyn lops his head off the blade, forcing his head up . The eunuch touched his neck and gaped at the blood on his fingers . "Your life is mine. I do not care what secrets you know. If Tyrion dies, you will not long outlive him, I promise you," Varys panted .
Jaime had led a dozen guards below, with torches and ropes and lanterns . Even crawling did not come easy; not for nought do they speak of hands and knees, nor could he hold a torch and climb, as others could.
Prince Rhaegar, Prince of Dragonstone, shook his head . "Your Grace," Jaime had pleaded, "let Darry stay to guard the king this once," Ser Barristan said .
Lord Tywin was more respected than beloved, and King’s Landing still remembered the Sack . He wore no crown, yet he was all a king should be. It was queer, but he felt no grief. Where are my tears?
Pycelle's beard had been magnificent, white as snow and soft as lambswool . The Grand Maester had been wont to stroke it when he pontificated . It concealed all manner of unsavory things: the loose skin dangling beneath the old man's jaw, the small querulous mouth and missing teeth .
Pycelle, the Kingsguard, the Tyrells, Jaime himself... even Ser Ilyn Payne, the silent knight who served as headsman . As King’s Justice, the dungeons were his responsibility . He had promised to find what answers he could from the chief undergaoler .
Longwaters had not been a tad of a lad for many a year, to judge from his spotted head . Lord Oakenfist the great admiral lost his heart to her, though he was married to another . He grew to be a great knight, as did his own son .
Rugen was here when I first came, twelve years past . I made note of it in my reports, my lord. I most suredly did, I give you my word upon it, the word of a man with royal blood.” Mention that royal blood once more and I may spill some of it .
Rennifer Longwaters consulted the great leather-bound book spread out before him . He took up a quill and began sharpening it . Jaime thought sourly, while we pay wages for twenty turnkeys, six undergaolers .
Ser Boros was shorter than Jaime, but heavier . “She said they were to sleep forever. So my brothers and me, we saw to it.” That you did. Varys dosed their wine to make them sleep . No, Jaime could have told him .
The smell reminded Jaime Lannister of the pass below the Golden Tooth . There were crows circling the seven towers and great dome of Baelor’s Sept . It was so grotesque it made Jaime laugh aloud .
The Warrior had been Jaime Lannister’s god since he was old enough to hold a sword . He was a warrior, and that was all he would ever be . I killed your vile son, and now I’m off to kill your father too .
Some were clad in the cloth-of-silver vestments and crystal coronals that marked the Most Devout . Through the Mother’s Doors marched white septas from their cloister, seven abreast and singing softly, while the silent sisters came single file down the Stranger’s Steps . A host of brothers appeared as well, in robes of brown and butternut and dun and even undyed roughspun, belted with lengths of hempen rope 
The Great Sept was still half a boy, arrogant and vain, but had it in him to perform deeds worthy of the White Book . The White Book would be waiting when this vigil was done, his page open in dumb reproach . But if he would not lie, what could he write but truth?
I never heard her enter. She was dressed like a tavern wench in a heavy roughspun cloak . A hood concealed her face, but he could see the candles dancing in the green pools of her eyes . “Why are you here, at this hour? What would you have of me?” He said .
Tyrion raised him to the crown, when the fat one died . He may have been conspiring with Tyrion . “You were Robert’s queen. And yet you won’t be mine.” “Tommen is no son of mine, no more than Joffrey was.” His sister flinched .
Dawn caught Jaime almost unawares as the glass in the dome began to lighten . There were rainbows shimmering off the walls and floors, bathing Lord Tywin’s corpse in a haze of many-colored light . They sang their songs and prayed their prayers and wrinkled up their noses .
Ser Osmund Kettleblack paced beside them in his white enamel plate and white wool cloak . He had seen the black hair on his chest, and the coarser thatch between his legs . The Imp lied. Spun gold and black wire tangled, sweaty, Cersei could hear his sister moan .
Jaime led the boy out to where the air was as fresh and clean as King’s Landing ever got . He took the king off to the side, well away from everyone, and sat him down upon the marble steps . I have smelled a man roasting, as King Aerys cooked him in his own armor .
The queen drew Tommen to her side. Mace Tyrell bowed before them. “His Grace is not unwell, I hope?” Cersei threw him a withering look, but for once she had the sense to bite her tongue . “I suppose... of course, we should be honored. My lady wife and I,” Jaime said .
Lord Tyrell has made it tediously plain that he will not leave King’s Landing till Tommen marries Margaery.” A wary smile crept across his sister’s face . “Why, our Lord of Highgarden might even lose his life in such a venture,” conceded Jaime .
The farm folk gave her curious glances, but no one spoke to her . It is for me to talk to them, but she had always found it hard to speak with strangers . The woman shook her head, but her husband said, "Then she’s no maid, I’ll wager."
The looters come with the carrion crows after every battle . There were pine and linden shields to be had for pennies, but Brienne rode past them . A pine shield had its advantages, and the soft wood was more like to trap a foeman’s axe or sword .
The Seven Swords was the largest inn in town, a four-story structure . They showed a castle in an autumn wood, the trees done up in shades of gold and russet . When Brienne showed her the shield her face went dark .
The arms of Tarth were quartered rose and azure, and bore a yellow sun and crescent moon . But so long as men believed her to be a murderess, Brienne dare not carry them . She had not meant to overnight in Duskendale, but it might be for the best .
Lord Denys was the last o’ them, the sweet young fool . Did you know the Darklyns were kings in Duskendale before the Andals come? You’d never know t’look at me, but I got me royal blood .
Ser Rufus Leek was a short, stout greybeard whose left leg ended in a stump . He sent her to the maester, a bald man with a freckled scalp and a stiff red mustache . The gold cloaks were here within days of the king’s murder .
Ser Dontos was a boy when he left Duskendale . The Darklyns were petty kings during the Age of Heroes . They were a noble House once, ’tis true. You know their arms? Barry red and pink .
Lord Denys lost his head, as did his brothers and his sister, uncles, cousins, all the lordly Darklyns . The Lace Serpent was burned alive, poor woman, though her tongue was torn out first, and her female parts . “I was forging my chain at the Citadel when this happened,” said the maester .
Young Dontos was the son of Ser Steffon Hollard, the twin brother of Ser Symon . He held no lands here, had neither kin nor castle . To my knowledge he never returned to Duskendale, and why should he?
In King’s Landing, Brienne had found one of Sansa’s former maids doing washing in a brothel . She said, “No lord will touch me now, so I have to wash for whores.” But when Brienne asked about Sansi, she said, "I’ll tell you what I told Lord Tywin. That girl was always praying. She’d go to sept and light her candles like a proper lady, but near every night she went off to the god
Brienne turned to retrace her steps, and walked headfirst into someone hurrying round the bend . He landed on his arse in the mud, knocking him off his feet . “Are you hurt?” she offered a hand to help him up, but the boy squirmed back away from her .
Four septas sat closest to the fire, in robes stained and dusty from the road . Elsewhere locals filled the benches, sopping up bowls of hot crab stew with chunks of bread . Not until he hopped off the bench did Brienne realize that the dwarf was a dwarf.
“I am looking for my sister. She’s highborn, only three-and-ten, a pretty maid with blue eyes and auburn hair.” “Gold?” The brother gave her a red smile . “There was a fool at Maidenpool, now that I think of it. He was clad in rags and dirt, as near as I could tell, but under the dirt was motley.”
Dontos Hollard had a red nose, full of broken veins? “I could not swear to that. I confess, I paid him little heed. I’d gone to Maidenpool after burying my brothers, thinking that I might find a ship to take me to King’s Landing.” “The Stinking Goose?” she said, uncertain. “An unsavory place,” the dwarf admitted.
Ser Cleos Frey and Ser Jaime had been taken by the Bloody Mummers . It had been a close thing, even so, but that was before Zollo hacked his hand off . "The Crone will light your way to her, never fear. The Maiden will keep her safe," he bowed .
The Stinking Goose had been a desolation, its lord shut up inside his castle, its smallfolk dead or fled or hiding . She remembered burned houses and empty streets, smashed and broken gates . I could do both, though .
Renly Lannister's sister found her in the common room, drinking a cup of milk and honey with three raw eggs mixed in . It was more a picture than a proper coat of arms, and the sight of it took her back through the long years, to the cool dark of her father’s armory . Brienne paid the captain’s sister half the sum they had agreed, and slung the shield across one shoulder .
Lord Randyll Tarly had commanded Joffrey’s army, made up of westermen and stormlanders and knights from the Reach . The northern dead, far more numerous, were buried in a common grave beside the sea .
Brienne was not the only traveler on the road . She rode past a fishwife and her daughters, walking home with empty baskets on their shoulders .
The right-hand fork followed the coast, meandering up along the shore toward Crackclaw Point . The left-hand ran through hills and fields and woods to Maidenpool . Part of the main keep still stood, however. Its triple towers were grey granite, like the broken walls .
Ser Shadrich was sixteen and no stranger to a sword, but still shy despite her prowess in the yard . She broke Ser Humfrey’s collarbone, two ribs, and their betrothal . He was her third prospective husband, and her last .
Ser Goodwin taught her to fight cautiously, to conserve her strength while letting her foes spend theirs in furious attacks . If the gods were good, the Mad Mouse would make the same mistake . When Brienne saw the horse she drew back in confusion .
The skinny boy went flying, his cloak flapping like a pair of wings . It was the same boy, beyond a doubt. He landed in the mud and came up with dirt and dead brown grass between his teeth to find Brienne standing over him .
Ser Ronnet. It is good to look upon your face at last . "Why are you stalking after me?" she asked of the boy . He was eighteen, with long red hair that tumbled to his shoulders .
Lady Sansa had stayed with them at Winterfell for half a year . She had prayed to the Seven in their sept and old gods of the heart tree . But that was when she was a little girl, and foolish .
Sansa sang of the Dance of the Dragons, of fair Jonquil and her fool . He sang of betrayals, murders most foul, of hanged men and bloody vengeance . It floated up the winding tower steps, found her naked in her bath, supped with her at dusk, and stole into her bedchamber .
Petyr Baelish, Lord of Harrenhal, Lord Paramount of the Trident, and Lord Protector of the Eyrie and the Vale of Arryn, looked up from the letter he was writing . He had written a hundred letters since Lady Lysa’s fall . It is better that he sings, yes, but... “Must he play all night, my lord? Lord Robert cannot sleep. He cries...” Lord Nestor Royce was the
Sansa Stark went spinning through a cold blue sky to stony death six hundred feet below . She had not slept a whole night through since Lysa Arryn’s death . “A touch of fear will not be out of place, Alayne. You’ve seen a fearful thing. Nestor will be moved,” Petyr said .
Robert was not strong and had to be protected, even from the truth . He is serving me lies as well, Sansa realized . A lie is not so bad if it is kindly meant .
Littlefinger and Lord Petyr looked so very much alike . Winterfell was burned and desolate, Bran and Rickon dead and cold . Tyrion had been put to death for killing Joffrey .
"On a Misty Morn" was sung by a mother on the dawn after some terrible battle . The mother sings her grief for her dead son, Sansa thought, but Marillion grieves for his fingers, for his eyes . He promised he’d come back to me Our home’s in Wendish Town .
Lord Nestor Royce was a bullnecked, barrel-chested, balding man with a grey-shot beard and a stern look . Sansa curtsied, too frightened to speak for fear she might misspeak . Petyr drew her to her feet .
Sansa had known bigger five-year-olds before Lady Lysa's death . He had taken to wandering the Eyrie in quest of other beds . "Lord Nestor has a mole," he said, squirming .
Lord Petyr was only a sick little boy who’d loved his mother . It was lambswool, soft and warm, a handsome sky-blue that set off the cream color of his tunic . She fastened it about his shoulders with a silver brooch in the shape of a crescent moon .
Ser Marwyn Belmore, a lanky ginger-headed knight who had been Lysa’s captain of guards till Petyr had put Ser Lothor Brune in his place . She was my aunt but she wanted to kill me, Sansa thought . He came up behind her and put his hands gently on her shoulders .
Lothor Brune strode to the dais to catch the boy as he slipped from his throne . He cursed, but still held on as the boy twitched and flailed and wet himself . It was long moments before Robert’s spasms began to subside, and seemed even longer . When their footsteps died away there was no sound in the High Hall of the Eyrie .
Ser Albar Royce was a blunt broad-shouldered knight who shaved his chin but cultivated thick black side-whiskers that framed his homely face like hedgerows . “He made mock of me as well,” Lord Nestor said . The knight’s doublet showed the six white candles of Waxley .
Petyr Baelish composed himself, and said, “As you wish, my lord.” He turned to his guardsmen and spoke a command . The gaoler Mord came with him, a monstrous man with small black eyes and a lopsided, scarred face . One ear and part of his cheek had been cleaved off in some battle, but twenty stone of pale white flesh remained .
Fat Maddy claimed that Mord had taken off three of his fingers, both pinkies and a ring finger . His little fingers did appear somewhat stiffer than the others, but with those gloves it was hard to be certain . “Take this creature away, or I’m like to kill him myself,” Petyr Baelish said .
Lord Nestor Royce seated himself beside the fire . Petyr gave the flames another stir and set the poker down . “My cousin means to remove you as Lord Protector.”
Petyr went to the oaken chest that sat beneath the window . He opened the chest, drew out a roll of parchment, and brought it to Lord Nestor . “This... this is unexpected, my lord.” She was startled to see tears in his eyes .
Jon Arryn was Keeper of the Gates whilst his father lived . He named his brother Ronnel to the honor, and later his cousin Denys . “Lord Robert has no brothers, and only distant cousins.” “True.” Lord Nestor clutched the parchment tightly. “You did,” Petyr said .
“I did,” Petyr admitted, “but our rock is a Royce,” which is to say he is overproud and prickly . He wants to believe that Lysa valued him above her other bannermen . “You might have had Lord Robert put his hand and seal to it, but instead...” “...I signed myself, as Lord Protector. Why?” Littlefinger said .
"I am tempted to say this is no game we play, daughter, but of course it is. The game of thrones," I never asked to play . "Oswell... my lord, Oswell rowed me from King’s Landing the night that I escaped. He must know who I am." "I will.” He cuddled close and laid his head between her breasts .
Harlaws, distant cousins all hung his banner behind the benches where his men were seated . Too few thought Asha Greyjoy, looking down from the gallery, too few by far . The benches were three-quarters empty .
Lord Rodrik had kept septons at Ten Towers, not for his soul’s sake but for his books . She had not seen Sawane Botley since... no, she ought not dwell on it . Three-Tooth was an old woman of fearful age who had never been partial to the company of quarrelsome drunks .
Lady Gwynesse had come home to mourn after her husband had died off Fair Isle during Balon Greyjoy’s first rebellion . Lord Rodrik has a second half-mad widowed sister beneath his roof, Asha reflected . Asha had done so with a heavy heart, fearing that her mother might well die before she could return .
Theon had been ten years old when he was carried off to Winterfell a hostage . Lady Alannys had naught to say to that. She only nodded slowly, yet it was plain to see how deep her daughter’s words had cut her . She must tell her that Theon is dead, and drive another dagger through her heart .
Ten Towers had always felt like home to Asha, more so than Pyke . She remembered breathless races up and down the steps and along wallwalks . Lord Theomore Harlaw had lost three sons in the cradle and laid the blame on the flooded cellars, damp stones, and festering nitre of ancient Harlaw Hall .
Lord Rodrik Harlaw was neither fat nor slim; neither tall nor short; neither ugly nor handsome . His hair was brown, as were his eyes, though the short, neat beard he favored had gone grey . He was distinguished only by his love of written words, which so many ironborn found unmanly and perverse .
Asha closed the septon’s book with a thump . She mourns for her dead husband as deeply as she did the day he died . "I am not certain she ever knew his name," Lord Rodrik sighed .
Asha slid her dirk out of its sheath and began to clean the dirt from beneath her fingernails . “Three years away, and the Crow’s Eye returns the very day my father dies.” “That is not how I would say it.” “I sent the summons. In your name, for the love I bear you and your mother. House Harlaw has gathered. Stonetree as well. Some Myres.”
Blind Beron Blacktyde, Tarle the Thrice-Drowned... even the Old Grey Gull has left that rock he lives on to preach this kingsmoot all across Harlaw . Asha was astonished. “I believe I’ll kiss the Damphair’s smelly feet and pluck the seaweed from out between his toes.”
“You may read it here. It is old and fragile.” He studied her, frowning . “I shall not go to Old Wyk. Nor should you.” Asha smiled . The dream of kingship is a madness in our blood .
Harlaw was not the largest of the Iron Islands, but it was the richest and most populous . The Volmarks and Stonetrees boasted famous captains and fierce warriors of their own, but even the fiercest bent beneath the scythe .
“I know that.” Asha had loved her father, but did not delude herself . “I shall... at my queensmoot. Nuncle, how can you even think of not attending? This will be history, alive...” “I prefer my history dead. Dead history is writ in ink, the living sort in blood.” “How else? Though not till I’m done reading.” Lord Rodrik went to the window .
Lord Rodrik stared across the sea, watching the play of moonlight on the waves . “We had one king, then five. Now all I see are crows, squabbling over the corpse of Westeros.” Asha shifted in her seat. “If you do not go, I will spend the rest of my life wondering what might have happened if I had.” “Ten Towers?” Would that I could.
Harlaw Hall belonged to old Sigfryd Harlaw the Silverhair . Hotho Harlaw had his seat at the Tower of Glimmering, on a crag above the western coast . The Knight, Ser Harras Harlaw, kept court at Grey Garden . But each was subject to Lord Rodrik .
Asha's victory would serve her in good stead, once her men began to boast of it . The crew of her Black Wind took a perverse pride in the deeds of their woman captain . Tristifer Botley had the same unruly hair she remembered, and eyes as large and trusting as a seal’s .
Harren died at Moat Cailin. One of the bog devils shot him with a poisoned arrow. But I am the lord of nothing. When my father denied his claim to the Seastone Chair, the Crow’s Eye drowned him and made my uncles swear him fealty . “You are the rightful Lord Botley,” Tris assured him .
Aeron Damphair has called a kingsmoot. He thinks your uncle will descend on them and kill them all, as Urron did . “He lacks the strength.” He’s mad enough. “I don’t want to have a dozen sons,” she had told him appalled .
Asha knew them, every one. “Though All Men Do Despise Us,” Tris said. “The Crow’s Eye brought back monsters from the east... aye, and wizards too.” “You shall have all of me. I am your man, forever. Asha, I would wed you. Your lady mother has given her consent.” Tris stifled a groan. “What I am will be settled on Old Wyk. You think you want to wed me
Asha had surrendered her virtue at six-and-ten, to a beautiful blond-haired sailor on a trading galley up from Lys . He knew six words of the Common Tongue, but “fuck” was one of them . Botley blinked, as if he did not understand what she had said .
Asha sheathed her dirk and left him standing there with a fat drop of blood slowly creeping down his neck . It was the wedding that enraged her, though the slow-witted Swyft girl made a safer target . The queen sent to the kitchens for two boiled eggs, a loaf of bread, and a pot of honey .
Tommen will be safe, I promise you.” “Safe.” The word tasted bitter on her tongue . Jaime did not understand. No one understood. Only Melara had been in the tent to hear the old hag’s croaking threats . “Suppose he was,” said Jaime .
Cersei had not wanted Tommen and his wife to share a bed at all, but the Tyrells had insisted . “Husband and wife should sleep together,” the Queen of Thorns had said, “even if they do no more than sleep. His Grace’s bed is big enough for two, surely.” Lady Alerie had echoed her good-mother .
"Forget Plumm, just remember what I told you. Swear to me that you will stay by Tommen’s side until the sun comes up" "As you command," he said, as if Cersei thought she might enjoy . "Our lord father was murdered in that tower. I cannot bear to look at it. If the gods are good, the fire may smoke a few rats from the rubble."
A passage to the black cells had been found, and a stone well that seemed to have no bottom . They had found a chamber full of skulls and yellowed bones, and four sacks of tarnished silver coins from the reign of the first King Viserys . One boy had gotten stuck in a narrow passage and had to be pulled out by his feet, shrieking .
The Guild of Alchemists had been brewing fresh wildfire for a fortnight . "Let all of King’s Landing see the flames. It will be a lesson to our enemies." "Now you sound like Aerys." Her nostrils flared. "Guard your tongue, ser." "I love you too, sweet sister."
Margaery wore the same gown she had worn to marry Joffrey . She was still in black, as a sign of mourning for her murdered firstborn . It is too soon. A year, two years, that would have been time enough .
Cersei dared not fan the fires by insisting that he drape his bride in Lannister crimson so she yielded as gracefully as she could . But the sight of all that gold and onyx still filled her with resentment . The more we give these Tyrells, the more they demand of us .
The bird had come from a septry on an island hard by the mouth of the Trident . Some of the survivors claimed a brute in a hound’s head helm was amongst the raiders . "No doubt Lancel will be eager to hunt down Clegane and Lord Beric both, to restore the king’s peace to the riverlands."
“You will be rid of Lady Olenna soon enough,” Jaime broke in quietly . “Mace is taking half the Tyrell strength to Storm’s End, and the other half will be going back to the Reach with Ser Garlan .
Lady Alerie had made all the arrangements; Cersei had not had the stomach to face that daunting task again . Butterbumps and Moon Boy entertained the guests between dishes, and musicians played as they ate . The only singer was some favorite of Lady Margaery’s, a dashing young cock-a-whoop clad all in shades of azure .
Even peasant girls are pretty at a certain age, when they are still fresh and innocent and unspoiled, and most of them have the same brown hair and brown eyes as she does . Mace Tyrell arose to lead the toasts . She had no choice but to drink along with them, all the time wishing that the guests had but a single face .
A woman may weep, but not a queen . Lady Merryweather was as tall as the queen, but dark instead of fair, raven-haired and olive-skinned . She offered the queen a pale blue handkerchief of silk and lace .
“Your Grace, I...” The Myrish woman lowered her voice . “You are certain of this?” “Have her followed. Margaery never meets with her directly. Her cousins are her ravens, they bring her messages. They meet in the sept and pretend to pray. “Why would you betray her?” Cersei had learned suspicion at her father’s knee .
Mace Tyrell laughed amongst his knights. Lords Redwyne and Rowan were talking furtively. Ser Kevan sat brooding over his wine at the back of the hall . Senelle was filling the cups of the bride’s cousins with wine as red as blood. There is no one I can rely upon, not even Jaime .
The Knight of Flowers was in white silk, with a belt of golden roses about his waist and a jade rose fastening his cloak . Cersei thought they could be twins, but they had the same big brown eyes and the same thick brown hair falling in lazy ringlets to their shoulders . A ripe crop of pimples would teach them some humility .
Margaery was dancing with her cousin Alla, Megga with Ser Tallad the Tall . The other cousin, Elinor, was sharing a cup of wine with the handsome young Bastard of Driftmark, Aurane Waters . It was not the first time the queen had made note of Waters, a lean young man with grey-green eyes and long silver-gold hair .
A hundred yards from the small Hall, Cersei saw the tower’s crenellated battlements gnawing at a hunter’s moon . In half a heartbeat its interior was alive with light, red, yellow, orange... and green, an ominous dark green, the color of bile and jade and pyromancer’s piss . Fifty pots had been placed inside the Tower of the Hand, along with logs and casks of pitch and the
The queen thought of all the King’s Hands that she had known through the years . They are dead and burning, every one, with all their plots and schemes and betrayals . The Tower of the Hand gave out a sudden groan, so loud that all the conversation stopped abruptly .
“I see them. Lord Hallyne, how long will the fires burn?” “All night, Your Grace.” “Bright enough to see us safe to sleep, I think.” “Yes.” Cersei beckoned to Jaime. “Lord Commander, escort His Grace and his little queen to their pillows, if you would.” “You should not stay alone.” “I will not be alone. Ser Osmund can remain with me and keep me safe. Your Sworn Brother.”
Lord Edgerran the Open-Handed, seated in splendor with the heads of a hundred Dornishmen piled round his feet . Alester sounding his warhorn with his last breath . The Red Viper’s death had inflamed the Dornian even more . He brought three of wool, one light and one heavy, the third of fine white silk .
Ser Arys heard faint music drifting through louvered windows as he passed below . He thought of King Baelor the Blessed, who would fast to the point of fainting to tame the lusts that shame him . The best snake sauce had a drop of venom in it, he had heard .
Prince Trystane had left her in her chambers, pushing ornate pieces across squares of jade and carnelian and lapis lazuli . The Dornish court was mad for it, and Ser Arys just found it maddening . There were ten different pieces, each with its own attributes and powers .
Arys had been shocked to see how aged and infirm the Dornish prince appeared . "I am sorry I could not see you until now, or meet Princess Myrcella," Martell had said . “I trust that my daughter Arianne has made you welcome here in Dorne, ser.” “She has, my prince,” he’d answered .
The Prince of Dorne is terrified. Words failed him. “My apologies, ser,” Prince Doran said. “When I do I shall take Princess Myrcella with me.” The Gardens are my haven. Autumn is a lovely season there... hot days, cool nights, the salt breeze off the sea, the fountains and the pools.
He pushed through the gate and climbed the worn steps to an unmarked door . He saw patterned Myrish carpets underneath his sandals, a tapestry upon one wall . She stepped out from the shadow behind the door, an ornate snake coiled around her right forearm, its copper and gold scales glimmering when she moved .
“Touch me, ser,” the woman whispered in his ear as he slipped a finger up inside her . “More, oh more, yes, sweet, my knight, my sweet white knight, yes you, you, I want you.” Her hands guided him inside her, then slipped around his back to pull him closer . When she wrapped her legs around him, they felt as strong as steel .
“You bleed,” she said. “I scratched too hard.” “I have balm. For the scratches.” “So soon?” She had a husky voice, a wide mouth made for whispers, full lips ripe for kissing. “Stay with me tonight, ser. I still have much to teach you.” “You know I have no other woman. Only... only... duty.” She rolled onto one elbow to look up at him, her big black eyes shining in the candlelight 
In the Reach men said it was the food that made Dornishmen so hot-tempered and their women so wanton . He could never have a daughter of his own, no more than a wife . "You will certainly set out within a fortnight," she agreed, "though with my father, everything takes four times as long as it should."
Ser Arys said: “I am my cloak. And this must end, for your sake as well as mine.” “Men will think me an oathbreaker.” “My father is many things, but no one has ever said he was a fool. The Bastard of Godsgrace had my maidenhead when we were both fourteen. I did, and meant it too.” He could not tell her that; she had ripped the fabric to the navel when she pulled it down over his arms
Ser Arys felt as if she’d slapped him . “Why else would I have forsaken all my honor, but for love?” he said . "I swore a vow...” .
Ser Lucamore Strong was no true knight, no more than Terrence Toyne . “I will not believe that,” he said, offended .
Terrence Toyne’s treason and the deceits of Lucamore the Lusty were recorded in the White Book . There was no hint of a woman on Prince Lewyn’s page . It is not our love that has dishonored you, it is the monsters you have served and the brutes you’ve called your brothers .
Ser Criston Cole was thinking of Myrcella, but of her mother and his own, of the Red Viper’s pretty, deadly Sand Snakes . The truth was, the princess was braver than her brother, and brighter and more confident as well . His voice was hoarse .
Prince Oberyn Viper would have placed the crown upon her head himself if he had lived . “You say you love the girl as you would a daughter of your own blood. Would you let your daughter be despoiled of her rights and locked away in prison?” Ser Arys frowned .
Aegon the Dragon made the Kingsguard and its vows, but what one king does another can undo, or change . Arianne put her arms around him and laid her face against his chest . She is tearing me apart. “You know I do, but...” “I am a princess of Dorne,” she said .
Arys, my heart, hear me for the love you say you bear me . I have never been as fearless as my cousins, for I was made with weaker seed, but Tyene and I are of an age and have been close as sisters since we were little girls . He has been disappointing him since I first arrived in this world without a cock .
Ser Arys put his hand beneath her chin and raised her head, the better to look her in the eyes . "You cannot mean Trystane, he is just a boy," she said .
Lord Yronwood's forebears rode with Bittersteel during three of the Blackfyre Rebellions . She took Ser Arys by the hand, and wove her fingers through his own . "I would believe it of any of the other free companies, yes," she said .
The dragon is time. It has no beginning and no ending, so all things come round again . Anders Yronwood whispers in my brother’s ear that it is not right for men to kneel to women... that Arianne especially is unfit to rule, being the willful wanton that she is.” She tossed her hair defiantly . “Myrcella is the elder, and better suited to the crown,” she sank to one knee .
Ser Jaime still had both his hands. How I loathed him, with all his taunts and smiles . He looked at the bare brown trees, the wet leaves, the muddy road ahead . Brienne did not doubt the boy’s courage, only his training .
Ser Lorimer the Belly was part of Lord Lefford’s contingent . He was found with a salted ham he’d stolen from Lord Tywin’s stores . Tywin Lannister chose to hang him as a lesson to other looters . Ser Cedric had taught Podrick how to groom a horse .
A man and a woman were laboring in the traces, pulling the cart along the ruts toward Maidenpool . The farm folk watched them warily as they came trotting up, but once Brienne made it plain that she meant them no harm, they let her ride beside them . "They took off our daughter too and had their way with her, but she come wandering back after the battle down at Duskendale. The wolves ate him, I expect."
The Maid of Tarth had seen such eyes before . Lady Stark had been kind to her, but most women were just as cruel as men . But common women could be worse than either .
Lord Randyll Tarly sent men off to Riverrun to fight but never went himself . Lions sacked his town, then wolves, then sellswords, and his lordship just sat safe behind his walls . His brother 'ud never have hid like that. Ser Myles was bold as brass till Robert killed him .
Brienne had been betrothed at seven, to a boy three years her senior, Lord Caron’s younger son . Two years later he was dead, carried off by the same chill that took Lord and Lady Caron and their daughters . She would not be here now, dressed in man’s mail and carrying a sword, hunting for a dead woman’s child .
Lord Tarly's host saw two centaurs, a thunderbolt, blue beetle and a green arrow . Their serjeant had a peacock on his breast, its bright tail faded by the sun . When the farmers drew their cart up he gave a whistle . He tossed one up, caught it, and grinned .
“I know what Lord Randyll does with outlaws,” Brienne said . “He gelds them or sends them to the Wall. Sometimes both. And he cuts fingers off thieves.” A languid young man stepped from the gatehouse . The surcoat he wore above his steel had once been white, and here and there still was .
A true knight, it’s plain to see. Come, wife.” Brienne trotted after them, with Podrick at her heels . Inside the town she reined up. The ruins of a stable could be seen off to her left .
Ser Robar was twice the swordsman that you are . He was a rash fighter, and he tired easily . Ser Hyle would know she had no sisters .
Bienne saw new houses going up, a stone inn rising where a wooden inn had burned, and a new slate roof on the town sept . The cool autumn air rang to the sounds of saw and hammer . Men carried timber through the streets, and quarrymen drove their wagons down muddy lanes .
Lord Randyll shared the platform with Lord Mooton, a pale, soft, fleshy man in a white doublet and red breeches . He wore mail and boiled leather, and a breastplate of grey steel . The hilt of a greatsword poked up above his left shoulder .
Lord Randyll fined him fifty silver stags . He was followed by a grey-faced whore, accused of giving pox to four of Tarly’s soldiers .
Tarly weighed the word. He is judging me, as he judged those others. “No,” he said at last, “you only let him die.” He had died in her arms, his life’s blood drenching her . “You never should have donned mail, nor buckled on a sword. This is a war, not a harvest ball.” Her voice sounded high and girlish, when she wanted to sound fearless .
Lady Lysa Tully is dead. Some singer pushed her off a mountain . Littlefinger holds the Eyrie now... though not for long . He handed her back her letter .
"I will, ser. My lady." "Podrick, come." The boy trotted after her, leading their horses . "Are we going to find the place? The Stinking Goose, I mean." "No." "He said he’d show us. That knight. Ser Kyle." "Hyle. What did he do to you, ser? I mean, my lady."
Brienne thumped her head on a beam as she entered a knacker’s barn . It took her most of an hour to find it, down a flight of wooden steps . A few stools were scattered about and a bench had been shoved up against one earthen wall .
Ser Dontos had been fruitless, and with Lady Lysa dead the Vale no longer seemed a likely refuge . The Maid of Tarth had been betrothed three times, but she had never been courted until she came to Highgarden . Big Ben Bushy was one of the few men in Renly’s camp who overtopped her .
Ser Hugh Beesbury brought her a pot of honey "as sweet as the maids of Tarth" A hedge knight called Will the Stork offered to rub the knots from her shoulders . Brienne refused him. She refused them all . It was not as if she were the only woman there .
"I have put an end to their sport," Tarly said . "They were knights," she said, stunned, "anointed knights" "Your being here encouraged them," she insisted .
“Mighten be I did. Or not.” He wore a faded, torn doublet from which some lord’s badge had been ripped . The man took the coin and spun it, smiling . “Was there a girl with him?” “Two girls,” the man said at once. “Do you remember what he looked like?” “A fool.” “Frightened why?” He shrugged .
Gooseprickles rose along Brienne’s arms . “You sent the fool to smugglers.” “Him and them two girls.” He chuckled. “Only thing, well, the place I sent them,” He scratched his nose. “Those two girls are my sisters.” “Are they, now? Poor little things. Had a sister once meself,” Brienne said .
Dick Crabb, I’m named, though most call me Nimble Dick.” “No.” That seemed to surprise him . “His wife was a woods witch. He’d fetch his head back home and his wife would kiss it on the lips and bring it back t’ life . So Crabb’s keep got named the Whispers. Still is, though it’s been a ruin for a thousand years .
Slayer slapped him on the back and said, “With a belly big as yours, Slayer, that is a lot of quease.” The singer confessed to Dareon .
Blackbird had never seen the sea before, but they had come on several lakes . Eastwatch vanished first, and the Wall grew smaller in the distance, until it finally disappeared . Sam soon found himself clutching tightly to the gunwale and watching the sweep of the oars .
Sam was going to the Citadel to forge a chain and be a maester . He did not want to leave his brothers, the only friends he’d ever had . Gilly would be safe at Horn Hill with all the width of West-eros between her and the horrors she had known in the haunted forest .
Jon had named him a recruiter, to take the place of a man named Yoren . The voyage would be long and rough, no one could deny that, but for the others at least there would be a happy end . He tried to take his mind off the roiling in his stomach by talking with Gilly as she nursed her son .
Blackbird was the largest of the Watch’s galleys . Storm Crow and Talon were faster, Cotter Pyke told Maester Aemon .
Blackbird crept across the Bay of Seals, never out of sight of land . It was cold when the wind was blowing, but there was something bracing about the salt smell in the air . He tried to bolster Gilly’s courage and give her what cheer he could . The babe liked the ship no more than his mother did, it seemed .
Dareon was known to Blackbird’s oarsmen, and would play for them as they rowed . He knew all their favorite songs: sad ones like “The Day They Hanged Black Robin,” “The Mermaid’s Lament” and “Autumn of My Day” .
Aemon's eyes had dimmed and gone dark, but there was nothing wrong with his ears . Egg wanted me to help him rule, but I knew my place was here . No recruit had arrived at the Wall with so much pomp since Nymeria sent the Watch six kings in golden fetters .
Lord Redwyne’s galleas, the Arbor Queen, had three great burgundy sails and banks of oars that flashed gold and white in the sunlight . The way they rose and fell as the ship departed Oldtown had made him sick, to his lord father’s disgust . On the third day his brother Hobber clad a kitchen girl in his own armor and let her beat him with a wooden sword until she began to cry .
Lord Randyll forbade Sam to eat apples so long as they remained beneath Paxter Redwyne’s roof . It was not until they were back at Horn Hill that his mother told Sam that his father had never meant for him to return . “My poor Sam,” she murmured, dampened with her spit . The thought made his belly heave again .
The Skagosi named themselves the stoneborn, but their fellow northmen called them Skaggs and liked them little . Only a hundred years ago Skags had risen in rebellion . Some songs said they were cannibals; supposedly their warriors ate the hearts and livers of the men they slew .
Dareon said he had never seen Gilly in such a wretched state . "The sea scares her, that’s all," he said . The next day the rains began, and the seas grew rougher .
Maester Aemon stayed beside the old man for nigh unto an hour, huddled in his cloak as a soft, steady rain soaked him to his skin . Sam sighed and closed his eyes, and Sam moved closer to him, to shield him from the worst of the wind . He will ask me to help him to the cabin soon, he told himself .
Dareon wailed, Sam slammed down hard and lost his legs . It threw Gilly into his arms, and the wildling girl clung to him . She shuddered, her whole body shaking with the violence of her sobs .
Blackbird rounded the south coast of Skagos, they spotted the wreckage of a galley on the rocks . Some of her crew had washed up on the shore, and the rooks and crabs had gathered to pay them homage . They had eight days and seven nights of clear, smooth sailing, worse than before .
Sam clung white-knuckled to the rail wanting desperately to retch . He heard some of the crew muttering that this was what came of bringing a woman aboard ship, and a wildling woman at that . Sam dared not confront them. They were older men, hard and sinewy, their arms and shoulders thickened by years at the oars . When Gilly left the cabin to make water, he went with her .
“It is not fear you hear,” the old man told him . “She’s going to a safe place. A warm place. Why should she be grieving?” Sam whispered, “you have two good eyes, and yet you do not see. She is a mother grieving for her child.” “He’s greensick, that’s all.” It took Sam a moment to grasp what Aemon was suggesting . No mother loves all her children the same, not even the Mother Above.
He switched the babes to protect the little prince, to keep him away from Lady Melisandre’s fires, away from her red god . He was only Craster’s whelp, an abomination born of incest, not the son of the King-beyond-the-Wall . Sam staggered up onto the deck to retch, but there was nothing in his belly to bring up . There are no happy endings. “Slayer.” Dare
JAIME Lord Tywin Lannister had entered the city on a stallion, his enameled crimson armor polished and gleaming, bright with gems and goldwork . He left it in a tall wagon draped with crimmon banners, with six silent sisters riding attendance on his bones . The choice felt wrong to Jaime. His father had been an lion, that no one could deny .
Jaime trotted up beside him at the head of the column . "Does Her Grace have some last command for me?" "I am not here for Cersei." "Both of you have a taste for mockery," his uncle said .
Jaime had heard about Saltpans . Sandor Clegane is raiding along the Trident, it would seem. Your sister wants his head. It may be that he has joined Dondarrion .
Jaime’s head was pounding to the same beat as the drum . His uncle gave him a cool stare . “I am not like to go off and face Clegane and Dondarrion by myself, if that is what you fear, ser?” He said .
Ser Kevan was a Lannister of Casterly Rock . He could not believe that she would ever do him harm . And... why not about Cersei? When sons were killing fathers, what was there to stop a niece from ordering an uncle slain? An inconvenient uncle, who knows too much .
Jaime Lannister had taken Tommen round their camps before they marched, to cheer their little king . She had never looked more beautiful than she did that day, with a smile on her lips and the autumn sunlight shining on her golden hair .
A lance was heavier and more cumbersome than a sword, and swords were proving trial enough . A shield on his right arm would prove about as useful as nipples on his breastplate . Ser Tallad the Tall lost his mount when the sandbag came around and thumped him in the head .
Grand Maester Pycelle was in her solar in Maegor’s Holdfast with Tommen and Lord Merryweather’s dark-haired Myrish wife . “Did I miss some clever jape?” Jaime said, as he shoved through the door . "There you are, sweet sister. You have been looking everywhere for Tyrion," Jaime wrote .
Lady Merryweather said: "He might have been born deformed, or without a nose" Cersei knew the look in his sister’s eyes . The green light of the wildfire had bathed the face of watchers .
A king has no secrets from his Kingsguard . Relations between Aerys and his queen had been strained during the last years of his reign . They slept apart and did their best to avoid each other during the waking hours .
Lady Merryweather took her leave as well, kissing the queen on both cheeks . "I am growing very fond of Lady Taena. She amuses me," Jaime said . “Margaery is not half so clever as she thinks. Some of it is even true.”
Lady Merryweather may be a serpent, but she is far from stupid . She knows I can do more for her than Margaery, so she makes herself useful to me . If any tradesman be so unwise as to name a price in golden coins, she pays him with hands from Highgarden .
"You need a strong Hand, as Aerys needed Father," his sister said . "I have no fear on that count. Perhaps Taena’s husband. His grandfather was Hand under Aery's." "I govern the realm." "A weak ruler requires only a diligent servant to carry out his orders."
Aurane Waters commands the largest fleet in Westeros . It is past time Tommen had some young men about him in place of all these wrinkled greybeards . He’s been fucking Lancel and Osmund Kettleblack and Moon Boy for all I know...
Ser Loras poured himself a cup of wine, and took a seat across the half-moon table . “I have glanced at it. The shields are pretty. I prefer books with more illuminations. You would do well to know about the lives of those who went before.” “...Gwayne Corbray, Alyn Connington, the Demon of Darry. You will have heard of Lucamore Strong as well.”
Ser Loras was a Kingsguard knight for sixty years . He was given his cloak on a battlefield and died within an hour of donning it . “Most deserve to be forgotten. The heroes will always be remembered. The best and the worst.” He tapped the page he had been reading .
"Your Grace," said Qyburn quietly, "the small council..." "I shall dip your head in tar and give your twisted body to the dogs," she told would-be lords . "You’ve killed the wrong dwarf," Dorcas said at last .
Tyrion’s nose was hacked off in a battle . The queen was angry to think that she had kept her small council waiting for this mummer’s farce . "You have wasted my time and slain an innocent man. I should have your own heads off," she said .
Cersei had dreamed of the old woman, with her pebbly jowls and croaking voice . If Father had known what she said to me, he would have had her tongue out . "I have informers sniffing after the Imp everywhere, Your Grace," said Qyburn .
Ser Boros Blount was posted outside the doors of the council chambers . He hated it, but his jowls quivered as he held the door for them . Lord Gyles coughed by way of greeting, loud enough to wake Pycelle .
"Your Grace, this... a maester swears sacred vows, to hold no lands or lordships" "Your Citadel took away his chain," Cersei reminded him . "Do not presume to speak to me of fitness," Pycelle sputtered .
Ser Harys had been thrilled by his appointment, too dim to realize that he was more hostage than Hand . Kevan Lannister loved his chinless lady, flat-chested and chicken-legged as she was .
Prince Doran has taken his brother’s unruly bastards into custody, yet Sunspear still seethes . Ser Balon Swann would have another task as well, but that part was best left unsaid . Cersei favored him with a smile; she liked a bit of wit .
Qyburn smiled at Cersei, saying he was an old done man, Your Grace . "I have friends among the Most Devout as well, and they speak of Septon Ollidor." "Do not discount this man Luceon," QYburn said.
Lord Orton and Ser Harys murmured agreement . Gyles Rosby turned away in distaste as he was hacking up a gob of bloody phlegm . Orton Merryweather laughed .
"Lord Orton has convinced me. Maester Pycelle, instruct these Lords Declarant that no harm must come to Petyr. Elsewise, the crown is content with whatever dispositions they might make for the governance of the Vale during Robert Arryn’s minority.” Merryweather nodded .
Lord Gyles coughed. “...expenses... gold cloaks...” Cersei had heard his objections before . “Your Grace is prudent,” said Lord Merryweather .
Ser Harys shuffled through some papers . “The Iron Bank will have its due when I say they will.” “The next matter... we have had a letter from Lord Frey putting forth some claims” .
“Lord Walder will never sacrifice his own,” said Pycelle . “No,” mused Cersei, but his heirs may be less squeamish .
Lord Tyrell's ships have passed through the Straits of Tarth and are moving swiftly up the coast . Only a few fishing boats remain on Dragonstone to oppose Redwyne’s landing . “The northmen hate the wildlings. Roose Bolton should have no trouble winning them to our cause,” said Grand Maester Pycelle .
Lord Manderly has sent his letters on to us and replied with evasions . Stannis demands White Harbor’s swords and silver, for which he offers... well, nothing . He has clapped the wretch inside a cell .
"Your Grace has forgotten the Lady Sansa," said Pycelle . She refused to say the girl’s name . "I ought to have shown her to the black cells as the daughter of a traitor," Pycelles said .
"The Night’s Watch is sworn to take no part in the wars of the Seven Kingdoms," said Cersei . "We must declare this Snow a traitor and a rebel," said Ser Harys Swyft .
“Our new dromonds will need oarsmen,” said Aurane Waters . “The Night’s Watch defends us all from snarks and grumkins. My lords, I say that we must help the brave black brothers.” Qyburn leaned forward with a smile .
Ser Boros Blount escorted the queen back to her apartments . She found Lady Merryweather chuckling with Jocelyn and Dorcas . It was Cersei’s turn to laugh. “She fancies our Ser Osney.” He was the youngest Kettleblack .
Petyr had once remarked that the horn of plenty suited Lord Orton admirably, since he had carrot-colored hair, a nose as bulbous as a beetroot, and pease porridge for wits . “My lord is more bountiful than dangerous, this is so.” Taena’s olive skin turned even darker as she blushed .
“You are a wicked man,” the queen whispered, “and no true knight, I think.” “You’ve had me.” “Only once.” He grabbed her left breast again and gave it a clumsy squeeze that reminded her of Robert. “One good night for one good knight. You did me valiant service, and you had your reward.” “The black stallion? Aye. A gift from my brother Osfryd. Midnight, I call him.” “T
Aegon dismembered him piece by piece, and made the woman watch . Cersei did not want Osney dwelling on that ancient unpleasantness . “Tommen is not Aegone the Unworthy. Have no fear, he will do as I bid him.” “That too. Assuming she has still one.” She traced his scars again .
“I’ve killed more boys than I can count,” he insisted . “Once this boy is dead, I’d get my pardon from the king?” “That, and a lordship.” “A queen must have a consort. One who knows no fear.” “Lord Kettleblack?” A slow smile spread across his face .
Cersei summoned Jocelyn to brush her hair out whilst she slipped off her shoes and stretched like a cat . Even Mace Tyrell would not dare defend his darling daughter if she was caught in the act with the likes of Osney Kettleblack . She would see that Ser Osmund was the one to discover his brother with the little queen .
Taena got quite drunk and Cersei pried the name of her secret lover from her . He was a Myrish sea captain, half a pirate, with black hair to the shoulders and a scar that ran across his face from chin to ear . “I know the sort,” the queen said with a wry smile .
"Balon stood beneath those bones, when first he named himself a king," he recalled . "They will shout your name as loud," said Nute . Balon had three sons and a daughter he loved well .
Victarion Greyjoy squinted towards the strand of Old Wyk . He was a thickset man with bandy legs and long arms, but his eyes were not so keen as they had been when he was young . In those days the Barber could throw an axe so well that men said he could shave you .
The Crow’s Eye had drowned Lord Botley, Victarion had heard, and his heir had died at Moat Cailin . On her prow was a black iron maiden with one arm outstretched . His hair was flecked with hoarfrost, but he was as strong as ever been .
Men black as tar stared out at him, and others squat and hairy as the apes of Sothoros . Nute the Barber fastened the Lord Captain’s cloak about his shoulders . Beneath he wore heavy grey chainmail over boiled black leather .
Aeron Damphair was waiting for him in the surf with his waterskin slung beneath one arm . His nose rose like a shark’s fin from a bony face, and his eyes were iron . The priest was gaunt and tall, though shorter than Victarion .
Victarion saw men from every isle: Blacktydes, Tawneys, Orkwoods, Stonetrees, Wynches, and many more . Humble Shepherds, Weavers, and Netleys rubbed shoulders with men from Houses ancient and proud . He drank deep, wiped his mouth, and let them bear him off to cookfires .
Baelor Blacktyde sat by Victarion’s elbow in his lambswool tunic of black-and-green vairy, smooth-faced and comely . His cloak was sable, and pinned with a silver seven-pointed star . “What is dead can never die, but rises harder and stronger. In a hundred years men will sing of Balon the Bold.”
Two of Gorold Goodbrother’s sons knocked a table over fighting; Will Humble lost a wager and had to eat his boot; Little Lenwood Tawney fiddled whilst Romny Weaver sang “The Bloody Cup” and “Steel Rain” . A woman was amongst those laughing . “Asha,” he called in a commanding voice .
"You have not come to make a claim, I hope," Victarion teased him with a smile . "I am the child of King Balon’s body, so I come before you both. Hear me, nuncle..." But then a sudden silence fell. Little Lenwood Tawney lowered his fiddle, men turned their heads .
Euron Greyjoy looked unchanged, Victarion thought . He looked the same as the day he laughed at me and left . Euron was the most comely of Lord Quellon’s sons .
"I am the godliest man ever to raise sail! You serve one god, Damphair, but I have served ten thousand. From Ib to Asshai, when men see my sails, they pray. I spill their blood upon the sea and sow their screaming women with my seed. My little gods cannot stop me, so plainly they are false gods."
The Damphair turned his smiling eye upon Victarion . It was dangerous to speak so to the Crow’s Eye . “No, Your Grace,” said Germund Botley of Orkmont .
A throwing axe was in her hand and caught it deftly . Victarion slammed his fist upon the table . "I’ll have no blood shed here. Euron, take your... pets... and go."
Euron lifted two fingers to the patch that covered his left eye, and took his leave . Eldred Codd slipped out, cradling his bloody hand . Then Will Humble, Hotho Harlaw, a goodly lot of Goodbrothers .
A true wife, to be my queen and bear me sons. A king must have an heir. “I saw the Reader’s longship.” “It took all my charm to winkle him out of his Book Tower.” She has the Harlaws, then. Victarion’s frown grew deeper .
No King of the Isles had ever needed a Hand, much less one who was a woman . The captains and the kings would mock me in their cups . "To end this war before this war ends us. We have won all that we are like to win... and stand to lose all just as quick," Victarion said .
“Some men look larger at a distance,” Asha warned . “I burnt the lion’s fleet,” Victarion insisted . The Crow’s Eye hatched the scheme .
Aeron Greyjoy had run before the Crow’s Eye as if he were still the weak thing he had been . When the waves broke over his head they reminded him that that man was dead . I was reborn from the sea, a harder man and stronger . No mortal man could frighten him, no more than the darkness could .
Aeron Greyjoy had been the first sea dragon, the mightiest ever to rise from the waves . She fed on krakens and leviathans and drowned whole islands in her wrath . The Grey King had slain her and the Drowned God had changed her bones to stone so that men might never cease to wonder at the courage of the first of kings .
Aeron Greyjoy had no need of sleep, no more than the waves did, nor the fishes of the sea . As color stole into the world, a hundred banners lifted and began to flap . He saw warhorns and leviathans and scythes, and everywhere the krakens great and golden .
The Drowned God wakes, thought Aeron. He could hear his voice welling from the depths of the sea . It was there beneath the arch of Nagga’s ribs that his drowned men found him . Aeron gave a nod, and said, “Is it time?” Rus asked .
Men left their fires to make their way toward the bones of the Grey King’s Hall . Some had thralls to serve them; some had salt wives . Others, who had sailed too often to the green lands, were attended by maesters and singers .
A seagull screamed back at Aeron Damphair . The crowd began to stir, like men waking from a dream . Aeron's voice thundered like the waves .
Aeron Farwynd knew some queer folk who held lands on westernmost shores of Great Wyk . Some said they were skinchangers, unholy creatures who could take on the forms of sea lions, walruses, even spotted whales . He told of a wondrous land beyond the Sunset Sea, where death had no dominion .
Aeron Damphair's eyes were grey, now blue, as changeable as the seas . The vision he spoke of was doubtless a snare set by the Storm God to lure the ironborn to destruction . They included sealskins and walrus tusks, arm rings made of whalebone, warhorns banded in bronze .
"I can’t count how many hands I’ve crushed against my anvil neither, but there’s some widows could tell you. I’m eight-and-eighty and won’t live long enough to finish. You want a king with heirs? You’ve more’n I can count. If big is strong, no one’s stronger than me.
Erik Ironmaker stared down at Asha Greyjoy . “Stand up and I’ll shout your name with all the rest. You want a crown, aye. Stand up and take it.” Elsewhere in the press, the Crow’s Eye laughed . Aeron could see a thick blue vein pulsing in his neck as he struggled to rise .
The Drumm came next, another old man, though not so old as Erik . He climbed the hill on his own two legs, and on his hip rode Red Rain, his famous sword, forged of Valyrian steel in the days before the Doom . It spoke well of the Drumm that such a man would stand for him .
Aeron could feel a tightness in his belly, and it seemed to him that the waves were pounding louder than before . It is time for Victarion to make his claim .
Victarion rose, his champions arrayed themselves beneath him . Ralf Stonehouse bore the Greyjoy banner; the golden kraken on a field as black as the midnight sea . Captains scrambled to seize the richest pieces, shouting as they did so .
“Nuncle! Nuncle!” She snatched up a golden collar and bounded up the steps . She was Balon Greyjoy’s daughter, and the crowd was curious to hear her speak . “There’s no one braver than my nuncle,” she told Victarion .
“I’m a mother too, and here’s my suckling babe!” Asha drew a dirk from between her breasts . They pushed past Victarion’s three to stand below her .
“A wolf is not a kraken,” Victarion objected . “What the krake grasps it does not lose, whether it longship or leviathan.” “And what have we grasped, Nuncle? The north?” Asha beckoned, and her Black Wind men pushed forward, chests of oak and iron on their shoulders .
“Land. Victory. I’ll give you Sea Dragon Point and the Stony Shore,” said Asha. “Your choice is simple. Crown me, for peace and victory. Or crown my nuncle, for more war and more defeat.” Sheathed her dirk again. “Victory, and Asha!” shouted Rodrik the Reader, his hands cupped about his mouth . “ASHA!” Lord Baelor Blacktyde echoed .
horn blew was shiny black and twisted, taller than a man as he held it with both hands . It was bound about with bands of red gold and dark steel, incised with ancient Valyrian glyphs that seemed to glow redly .
Aeron Damphair covered his, and prayed for the Drowned God to smash the horn to silence, yet still the shriek went on and on . The cheeks of the tattooed man were so puffed out they looked about to burst, and the muscles in his chest twitched in a way that it made it seem as if the bird were about to rip free of his flesh and take wing . And now the glyphs were burning brightly, every line and
The Crow’s Eye stopped atop the steps, at the Grey King’s Hall, and turned his smiling eye upon the captains and the kings . Aeron could feel his other eye as well, the one he kept hidden . Only one living kraken has never known defeat .
Aegon Targaryen conquered Westeros with dragons . Asha glanced at the priest. “All for the greater glory of our Drowned God, to be sure.” “Why, it has been done before.” “What has the Conqueror to do with us?” Asha said .
Euron Greyjoy found a dragon horn bound with bands of red gold and Valyrian steel graven with enchantments . The dragonlords of old sounded such horns, before the Doom devoured them . “EURON!” shouted Left-Hand Lucas Codd .
Nimble Dick said the coast road was the shortest way, and the easiest, so they were seldom out of sight of the bay . At nightfall they would seek an inn, while Brienne took a room for her and Podrick . "You could lay your sword between us. Old Dick’s a harmless fellow," Brienne said .
Crabb showed his true colors the next day, when they stopped to water the horses . Brienne had to step behind some bushes to empty her bladder . She returned to the road to find Nimble Dick wiping flour off his fingers .
The Darklyn kings of Duskendale had tried to impose their rule on Crackclaw Point . When not fighting would-be conquerors, they fought each other . From time to time some champion would bring peace to the Point, but it never lasted longer than his lifetime .
Ser Galladon was a champion of such valor that the Maiden herself lost her heart to him . She gave him an enchanted sword as a token of her love . The Just Maid, it was called. No common sword could check her, nor any shield withstand her kiss .
Aegon sent his sister up to Crackclaw, that Visenya. The lords had heard o’ Harren’s end. The queen took them as her own men, and said they’d owe no fealty to Maidenpool, Crab Isle, or Duskendale. Don’t stop them bloody Celtigars from sending men to t’ eastern shore to collect his taxes.
Ser Hyle and his friends had played their game at Bitterbridge . Ser Ronnet had ridden over Harry Sawyer and broken Robin Potter’s helm . When the last of them had fallen, the Mother had delivered Connington to her .
Ser Jaime fastening a rainbow cloak about her shoulders . It was still raining the next morning . Nimble Dick suggested that they wait for it to stop .
“Squishers?” Brienne gave him a suspicious look . “They look like men till you get close, but their heads is too big, and they got scales where a proper man’s got hair,” Nimble Dick said .
I swore I would protect him, and I failed at that as well . I ran off with Lady Catelyn instead, and failed her too. The wind had shifted, and the rain was running down her face .
The next day the road dwindled to an abrupt end at the foot of a wind-carved cliff . Above, a small castle stood frowning over the waves, its three crooked towers outlined against a leaden sky . “Is that the Whispers?” Crabb spat .
Brienne glanced at Nimble Dick suspiciously. “Don’t squint at me,” Crabb said. “Some man o’ Brune’s, most like, come back from the wars.” “No,” Brienne said.
Brienne wondered if it wouldn’t be better to meet the rider here, with her blade in hand . "We should ride on," he urged, "before Brune starts to wonder why we’re here beneath his walls. Even a wench can wind a bloody crossbow."
Lord Brune’s castle dwindled at their backs, and soon was lost to sight . Sentinels and soldier pines rose all around them, towering green-clad spears thrusting toward the sky . It rained a bit, stopped for a time, then started once again, but amongst the pines scarce felt a drop . The very air seemed grey and green and still, it bothered Nimble Dick as well .
Brienne was praying that Nimble Dick was honest, and knew where he was taking them . They came down a hill and found themselves on the edge of a glistening green bog . The next day was the same. They rode through pines and bogs, under dark skies and intermittent rain .
Brienne had been sleeping only four hours a night, whilst Podrick watched over her . If Nimble Dick meant to try and murder them, she was convinced it would happen here, on ground that he knew well . Or perhaps he was just leading them in circles, waiting for that rider to catch up .
Ser Goodwin used to send her to her father’s butcher to slaughter lambs and suckling pigs . The piglets squealed and the lambs screamed like frightened children . By the time the butchering was done Brienne had been blind with tears .
Nimble Dick led the way, and they rode back into the pines . Podrick’s mouth gaped open. “I hear them.” Brienne heard them too. It was the sea, she realized suddenly. The waves had eaten holes in the cliffs below and were rumbling through caves and tunnels beneath the earth .
Mounds of poisonous red ivy grew over the heap of broken stones . Brienne tied the horse to a tree and edged as close to the precipice as she dared . He put one hand on her back, and pointed with the other .
The wood cracked and peeled away in long wet splinters, and half the gate came down on Brienne . The iron was red with rust, but it held when Brienne rattled it . They found it on the north side of the castle, half-hidden behind a huge blackberry bramble .
Old Crabb’s been dead a thousand years ago . The sound was just the sea, echoing endlessly through the caverns beneath the castle . It did sound like whispering, though, and for a moment she could almost see the heads .
Nimble Dick slipped sideways through the postern, ducking her head to pass beneath the doorway’s arch . To her left was the main gate, and the collapsed shell of what might have been a stable . Where the keep had been was a pile of collapsed stones, overgrown with green and purple moss .
A broken sword was in his hand, but it was his face that gave her pause, the small eyes and wide flat nostrils . A second man slipped over the lip of the well, making no more noise than a snake might make slithering across a pile of wet leaves . He wore an iron halfhelm wrapped in red silk, and had a short, thick throwing spear in hand .
“DON’T!” shrieked Dick, lifting bloody hands to shield his head . “You again, woman? What, come to hunt us down? Or did you miss our friendly faces?” Shagwell danced from foot to foot .
Rorge and Urswyck were for leaving Harrenhal, but the Goat says we got to hold his castle . He said it slobbery, the way he always talked . “I am not here for you. I am looking for my...” She almost said my sister .
“He might have lied.” “He may have, but he didn’t. Later on, we heard how the Hound slew three of his brother’s men at an inn by the crossroads. The girl was with him there. The innkeep swore to it before Rorge killed him, and the whores said the same. An ugly bunch, they were. Not so ugly as you, mind you, but still...” He is trying to distract me, Brienne realized, to 
Oathkeeper bit through leather, wool, skin, and muscle, into his leg . He cut back wildly as his leg went out from under him . Brienne stabbed him through the throat, gave the blade a hard turn, and slid it out .
He clawed at his belt and came up with a dagger, so Brienne cut his hand off . “Mother have mercy,” the Dornishman gasped, the blood bubbling from his mouth and spurting from his wrist. “You mustn’t hurt sweet Shagwell, I’m too droll to die.” “You are no better than the rest of them. You have robbed and raped and murdered.”
Brienne sheathed Oathkeeper, gathered up Dick Crabb, and carried him to the hole . He had a jagged chunk of rock clutched in one hand . A dagger will beat a rock almost every time . She knocked aside his arm and punched steel into his bowels .
Ser Hyle Hunt climbed down from the wall . She ripped Oathkeeper from her sheath and whirled, expecting more Bloody Mummers . "If there are brothels down in hell, the wretch will thank you," the knight said .
Arianne Martell arrived with Drey and Sylva just as the sun was going down . Garin had arrived a few hours earlier, and the knight called Darkstar the day before . The sand steeds of Dorne were swift and tireless, and would keep going for long leagues .
Ser Gerold Dayne had an aquiline nose, high cheekbones, a strong jaw . He kept his face clean-shaven, but his thick hair fell to his collar like a silver glacier . His eyes seemed black as he sat outlined against the dying sun, sharpening his steel .
Garin was in a lively mood and entertained them with the latest tales from the Planky Town at the mouth of the Greenblood . If the sailors could be believed, the east was seething with wonders and terrors: a slave revolt in Astapor, dragons in Qarth, grey plague in Yi Ti . A new corsair king had risen in the Basilisk Isles and raided Tall Trees Town .
Arianne and Spotted Sylva were her dearest friends, aside from her cousin Tyene . She had been teasing her since both of them were drinking from his mother’s teats . The sun was gone, and the sky was full of stars. You will not rob me of my birthright!
Garin’s mother had seen him at the Planky Town, posing as a merchant . A clever man would have left from Oldtown, even if it meant a longer voyage . In Oldtown he might have gone unrecognized .
Ser Gerold drew his sword. It glimmered in the starlight, sharp as lies . “No, my lady. What I know is that Daynes have been killing Oakhearts for several thousand years.” His arrogance took her breath away .
Arianne moved forward in a swirl of silk, smiling to put the child at ease . “They are my true and loyal friends, Your Grace... and would be your friends as well.” “Princess Arianne?” The girl threw her arms around her .
Arianne led her queen-to-be to the final member of her little band . "There was an Arthur Dayne," Myrcella said . The moonlight shone in his dark eyes as he studied the child coolly .
Tywin Lannister is dead; Dorne’s enemies would be much weaker . The lords of the Seven Kingdoms grew accustomed to Queen Cersei’s rule .
“He’s fled,” Ser Arys said. “I see that queenmaking excites you, ser, but we have no time for this. Later, I promise you.” She touched his cheek . “Did you meet with any problems?” “Only Trystane. He wanted to sit beside Myrcella’s bedside and play cyvasse with her.” “The boy perhaps, but not your father’s maester.” “Caleotte,” she said.
Myrcella helped her curl her hair, and painted the dots on her face herself . It was a deal harder to find a man to take my place . Dake is closest to my height, but he’s too fat, so I put Rolder in my armor .
The moon had crowned the Moonmaid as they set out from the dust-dry ruins of Shandystone . Arianne and Ser Arys took the lead, with Myrcella on a frisky mare between them . Garin followed close behind with Spotted Sylva, whilst her two Dornish knights take the rear .
“I thought you were the Rhoynar. You Dornishmen, I mean.” Nymeria’s blood is in me, along with that of Mors Martell . They were glad to see those flames, for their voyagings had been long and terrible before they came to Dorne . The Old Man of the River is a lesser god,” said Ser Arys .
Lady Sylva is a Lannister of Lannisport, not Casterly Rock . Arianne had hoped to reach the river before the sun came up, so they were still in the saddle when the eastern sky turned red . Darkstar cantered up beside her, but she did as he suggested .
Arianne drew her veil across her face . It was made of shimmering silk, pale green above and yellow below . Small green pearls rattled softly against each other as she rode .
Arianne spied a hawk wheeling high above them against a cloudless sky . Soon they came upon a tree, a thicket of sandbeggars growing around the dry bed of a stream . Garin was the first to spy the river glimmering green .
Arianne Martell had crossed the Mander once, when she had gone with three of the Sand Snakes to visit Tyene’s mother . It took its name from the murky green of its sluggish waters; but as they approached, the sunlight seemed to turn those waters gold . The next part should be slow and simple, she thought, up the Greenblood and onto the Vaith, as far as a poleboat can go . They would need help from Sandstone and the Hellholt to make
Areo Hotah thumped the butt of his longaxe upon the deck . Garin backed slowly from the poleboat, his hands in the air . Ser Arys Oakheart put his horse between Arianne and the crossbows, his blade shining silver in his hand .
Arianne Martell had never seen anything half so gallant, or half so stupid . “Noooo,” she shrieked, but she had found her tongue too late . A crossbow thrummed, then another. Hotah bellowed a command.
Areo Hotah took his right arm off at the shoulder, spun away spraying blood, and came flashing back again in a terrible two-handed slash that removed the head of Arys Oakheart . It landed amongst the reeds, and the Greenblood swallowed the red with a soft splash . Arianne did not remember climbing from her horse. Perhaps she’d fallen. Yet she found herself on her hands and feet in the sand, shaking and sobbing
No whisper was too faint to be heard in the House of Black and White . “Child,” said the kindly man one day, “what are those names you whisper of a night?” “I don’t whisper any names,” she said. “You lie when they are afraid. Some have only one great lie they tell so often that they almost come to believe it... though some small part of them will always know that it is still a lie” .
Arya was given servant’s garb: a tunic of undyed wool, baggy breeches, linen smallclothes, cloth slippers for her feet . She had been Arry and Weasel too, and Squab and Salty, Nan the cupbearer and a grey mouse, a sheep, the ghost of Harrenhal... but not for true, not in her heart of hearts . The waif lived below the temple, along with three acoly
Arya only knew a few words of Braavosi, the ones that were the same in High Valyrian . She prayed in silence. If the Many-Faced God was a proper god, he would hear her . There were no services, no songs, no paeans of praise .
The Weeping Woman was the favorite of old women, Arya saw; rich men preferred the Lion of Night, poor men the Hooded Wayfarer . Soldiers lit candles to Bakkalon, the Pale Child, sailors to the Moon-Pale Maiden and the Merling King . The knoll on which the temple stood was honeycombed with passageways hewn from the rock .
Umma would slap a knife into her hand and point at an onion . Arya would chop it until the cook said stop (stop was the first Braavosi word she learned). Clams and cockles abounded hereabouts, wandering through a wide expanse of reeds .
It had been a long while since Arya had gone to sleep every night with a full belly . She remembered how that pimply squire had wept when she stabbed him in the belly, and the way Ser Amory Lorch had begged when the Goat had him thrown in the bear pit . "Death is not the worst thing," the kindly man replied .
Syrio Forel had taught her needlework and died for her . "I don’t want to leave... but stay... but remember, the House of Black and White is not a home for orphans. All men must serve under this roof. At all times and in all things. If you cannot obey, you must see.” She swept the temple floors; she served and poured at meals .
The dead were never hard to find. They came to the House of Black and White, prayed for an hour or a day, and stretched out on a stone bed behind one god or another . They closed their eyes, and slept, and never woke . Arya would fetch the serving men, whose task it was to carry the dead down to the vaults .
Arya of House Stark was stricken when she saw her swordplay . "You need to rid yourself of all this," he said of her treasures . He picked up her silver fork . “I serve,” she said, wounded .
"I’m strong. As strong as you. I’m hard." "You believe this is the only place for you," Arya thought . "You are wrong in that. You would find softer service in the household of some merchant." "We will send you to the Black Pearl or the Daughter of the Dusk. You will sleep on rose petals and wear silken skirts that rustle when you walk"
The Many-Faced God will take your ears, your nose, your tongue, your private parts . Arya knocked his hand away, so deep it made her shiver . “I can give up anything I want!” He gestured at her treasures . Then she went back to her cell and whispered her names .
It was the first time Needle had been outside since entering the temple . The sky was overcast, and fog covered the ground like a frayed grey blanket . It was so foggy she could not see the water, but she heard it lapping softly at stone pilings . At the water’s edge she stopped, the silver fork in hand .
Needle was the summer snows, Old Nan’s stories, the heart tree with its red leaves and scary face, the warm earthy smell of the glass gardens, the sound of the north wind rattling shutters of her room . The Many-Faced God can have the rest, she thought, but he can’t have this . She padded up the steps as naked as her name day, clutching Needle . Arya knelt and dug around its edges with her
wretched slaves toiled in the deep mines beneath the Fourteen Flames that lit the Freehold’s nights of old . Most mines are dank and chilly places, cut from cold dead stone . Some say they are akin to dragons, for wyrms breathe fire too .
Slaves perished by the score, but their masters did not care . Red gold and yellow gold and silver were reckoned to be more precious than slaves . In times of peace they bred them, though only the worst were sent down to die in the red darkness .
“He killed the slave?” Arya drew back from him. “He should have killed the masters!” He cocked his head . “How do you know? Is it magic?” A man does not need to be a wizard to know truth from falsehood, not if he has eyes .
The Common Tongue came to the waif more quickly . Arya said, “You must lie gooder.” “Gooder? You mean better, stupid.” “Better stupid. I will show you.” She said . The waif was a novice in the House of Black and White .
The waif asked her once, in the Common Tongue . “Ten,” said Arya, and raised ten fingers . She thought she was still ten . The Braavosi counted days differently than they did in Westeros .
The fat fellow had fierce black eyes, a hook nose, and a wide mouth full of yellow teeth . The handsome man had a different color every time she saw him, but he was never less than comely . Before you can learn to move you must learn to be still, Syrio Forel had taught her long ago at King’s Landing .
“I know no one by this name, child.” “Did he?” “Will you show me how to change my face?” “If you wish.” He cupped her chin in his hand and turned her head . “There. Your face is changed.” “That’s not how I meant. Jaqen used magic.” “Years?” she said, dismayed .
You will find a Myrish mirror in the vaults. Train before it for an hour every day . Eyes, nostrils, cheeks, ears, lips, learn to rule them all . Arya would look at them as she washed them, wondering what brought them to the black pool .
The only way you will ever truly master our tongue is if you speak it every day from dawn to dusk. You must go.” “When?” she asked him. “Where?” “Now,” he answered. “Beyond these walls you will find the hundred isles of Braavos in the sea. You have been taught the words for mussels, cockles, and clams, have you not?” “Yes.” “I could be Salty, from Saltpans.” “You are marked by the
A long iron knife rode on her hip, hidden by her cloak, a patched thing of the sort an orphan might wear . Arya turned her face up to let the raindrops wash her cheeks, so happy she could dance . It will be worse when winter has us in its grip, she thought .
Alayne had a dressing room and privy of her own now, and a balcony of carved white stone that looked off across the Vale . The stone was cold beneath her feet, and the wind was blowing fiercely, but the view made her forget all that for half a heartbeat . Maiden’s was the easternmost of the Eyrie’s seven slender towers .
Young Lord Hunter and his levies had joined the others two days past . Each of the Lords Declarant had brought a thousand, and there were six of them . Alayne knew their names as well as her own .
Gretchel helped her slide her arms into the belled sleeves and laced her back . The wash her aunt had given her changed her own rich auburn into Alayne’s burnt brown, but it was seldom long before the red began creeping back at the roots . There was no quieter castle in all the Seven Kingdoms .
The Eyrie’s granaries held sufficient oats and corn and barley to feed them for a year . They depended on a bastard girl named Mya Stone to bring fresh foodstuffs up from the valley floor . Lord Belmore, first of the six to reach the Gates, had sent a raven to tell Littlefinger that no more food would go up to the EYrie until he sent Lord Robert down .
“He is.” It frightened her to hear him talk like this . “Sweetrobin, he is. Marillion loved your lady mother too much and could not live with what he’d done to her, so he walked into the sky.” Alayne had not seen the body, no more than Robert had .
Lyn Corbray had slain almost as many men in duels as he had in battle . Petyr said Prince Lewyn had been sorely wounded by the time battle swept him to his final dance with Lady Forlorn . If even half of what she had heard from Lord Robert’s guards was true, Lyn was more dangerous than all six of the Lords Declarant put together .
Lyn snatched up Lady Forlorn and slew the man who’d cut him down . When old Lord Corbray died, Lyn bestowed the Lady upon his younger son . “I don’t like Ser Lyn,” Robert insisted .
Petyr Baelish ducked aside nimbly, but Maester Colemon was not so quick . He yelped in a most unmaesterlike fashion, while Alayne turned to soothe the little lordling . One foot caught Alayne in the belly, so hard it knocked the wind from her .
Archmaester Ebrose claims that mother’s milk has many heathful properties . Lord Petyr’s laugh made it plain what he thought of that . “No, I think not. I suggest you find another way,” Colemon said .
The Lords Declarant will not be pleased by the sight of my bastard daughter prancing about in my dead wife’s clothes . “Eight, you said... Bronze Yohn is one of them?” she reminded him . He saw Sansa Stark again at King’s Landing, during the Hand’s tourney .
“I am well loved in Gulltown, and have some lordly friends of mine own as well,” she had thought about that . “I needed a great seat to marry Lysa, and the Lannisters were not about to grant me Casterly Rock.” “Ah, and what a castle it is.” “Has someone made a song about Gregor Clegane dying of a poisoned spear thrust? Or about the sellsword before him, whose limbs
Cersei Lannister still has yet to learn . It’s a lesson that Cersesei is not kind. She scares me. If she should learn where I am——I might have to remove her from the game sooner than I’d planned.” She teased her with a little smile .
The Eyrie was the only castle in the Seven Kingdoms where the main entrance was underneath the dungeons . Steep stone steps crept up the mountainside past the waycastles Stone and Snow, but they came to an end at Sky . The final six hundred feet of the ascent were vertical, forcing would-be visitors to dismount their mules and make a choice .
Lord Redfort and Lady Waynwood were the most elderly of the Lords Declarant . Alayne met them in the Crescent Chamber beside a warming fire . She served them bread and cheese and cups of hot mulled wine in silver cups . Petyr had given her a roll of arms to study .
Lord Nestor stood as tall as the Hound . His seamed and solemn face brought back all of Sansa’s memories of his time at Winterfell . She could see him in the yard, a practice sword in hand, hammering her father to the ground and turning to defeat Ser Rodrik .
Anya Waynwood’s hair was greying and she had crow’s-feet around her eyes and loose skin beneath her chin . The girl is young and gently bred, and has suffered enough horrors . “My tongue is my concern,” Corbray replied .
Ser Lyn is very handsome, for an older man, she thought, but I do not like the way he smiles . The heart-shaped ruby in the pommel of his sword shone redly as he warmed his hands . Alayne saw him smile at Ser Lothor Brune .
“The crown has made you Lord of Harrenhal,” Young Lord Hunter pointed out . “The riverlands have need of a lord,” Old Horton Redfort said . He will learn arts of war from Strong Sam Stone .
Petyr Baelish asked Lord Grafton and Lord Lynderly to send me each a son to ward . Each of them has a boy of an age with Robert . "Robert should have an older boy about him too. Someone he could admire and try to emulate," Petyor said .
Young Lord Hunter said, “Lysa Tully was never truly of the Vale, nor had she the right to dispose of us.” “And Lord Robert?” Petyr asked . “I once hoped to wed Lady Lysa myself. As did Lord Hunter’s father and Lady Anya’s son. It happens that she chose Lord Littlefinger, and entrusted her son to his care,” Bronze Yohn said .
Lyn Corbray drew his longsword. Petyr spread his hands. “Easily remedied.” Candlelight rippled along corbray’s steel . She saw Lothor Brune reach for his own sword, but before the blades could meet Bronze Yohn rose in wrath . “My lady has a thirst,” Ser Lyn insisted .
“You brought him here, my lords.” Bronze Yohn said, “I would be well within my rights to call my guards and have all of you arrested.” Petyr sounded as angry as she had ever heard him . “I have read your declaration and heard your demands. Now hear mine. Remove your armies from this mountain. Go home and leave my son in peace. It was not me who bared steel at a parley.” Lord Redfort said uncertainly .
“I call that more than fair,” insisted Templeton . “No talk of treason or rebellion. You must swear to that as well.” “Gladly,” said Petyr. “I like it not, but it would seem you have your year. Not all of us are fooled.” He opened the door so forcefully .
Gilwood Hunter will be murdered by his brothers. Most likely by young Harlan, who arranged Lord Eon’s death . Bronze Yohn Royce will continue to be hostile, I fear, but so long as he stands alone he is not so much a threat.” Littlefinger laughed aloud .
Tommen, I have grave matters to decide, matters that you are far too young to understand . "I suppose Margaery thinks you ought to be at my council meetings too?" "Yes," Cersei admitted. "When you are older, you can attend as many councils as you wish," he told him .
Moon Boy capered as she took her midday meal with members of the merchant guilds and listened to them complain about sparrows wandering the streets and sleeping in the squares . At the last session he had complained bitterly about the men that Aurane Waters had chosen to captain her new dromonds. “The only thing these captains proved was that they know how to swim,” Cersei said.
Roose Bolton and his bastard son were closing in on Moat Cailin from south and north . Mace Tyrell had raised tents outside Storm’s End and had mangonels flinging stones against the castle’s massive walls . Lord Gyles claimed he could no longer deal with the man... though the queen was starting to wonder if Gyles was capable of doing anything but coughing .
“I have spoken with Lord Gyles six times. He coughs at me and makes excuses, Your Grace, but the gold is not forthcoming.” “Speak to him a seventh time,” Cersei suggested pleasantly. “It pleases Your Grace to make a jest, I see.” “King Robert—” “—is dead,” she said sharply. “The Iron Bank will have its gold when this rebellion has been put down.” He had the insolence to scowl at her.
Ser Osmund ran his fingers through his oily black hair . “It’s her that’s the trouble.” “And why is that?” Margaery asked .
Ser Osmund says he's teaching them the Summer Tongue . She's a fool for singers and jugglers and such. Knights, come round to moon over her cousins . Ser Tallad’s the worst, Osney says .
Tommen were crossing beneath the shadow of the broken Tower of the Hand when cheers swept over them . The queen had little choice but to don a smile and go to see her son . “You have a better seat than me, sire,” put in Ser Dermot .
Margaery Tyrell kissed the king upon his cheek, and put an arm around him . “My gallant husband will be unhorsing you in a few more years, I think.” Her three cousins all agreed . The wretched little Bulwer girl began to hop about, chanting, “Tommen will be the champion, the champion,” Cersei said .
"Robert won the tourney of the Trident," she had to say . "Ser Osmund, help my son from his armor, if you would be so good." "My sister’s," Cersei admitted .
"Your Grace will not find any man half so skilled with sword and lance as I," Ser Loras said . The Knight of Flowers was no sort of man for any boy to emulate .
Ser Loras Tyrell was frightened of Sandor Clegane’s harsh voice and burned face . Aron Santagar was Dornish, Cersei recalled . There is talk that the Archon of Tyrosh offered terms to Lys .
Meereen was at the far end of the world, out east beyond Valyria . "Let the slaves revolt. Why should I care? We keep no slaves in Westeros," Cersei recalls . Prince Doran has imprisoned Ser Daemon Sand .
The Estermonts were her good-kin through Robert, whose father had taken one of them to wife in what must have been a fit of lust or madness . By the time Cersei wed the king, Robert’s lady mother was long dead, though both of her brothers had turned up for the wedding and stayed for half a year . It did not take him long to start playing with her again .
“Now I do.” Cersei gave her an apologetic smile and told her of a puppet show that had become popular amongst the city’s smallfolk . “The puppet lions grow greedy and arrogant as this treasonous tale proceeds, until they begin to devour their own subjects.” “No, Your Grace. At the end a dragon hatches from an egg and devours all of the beasts.” The ending took the puppet show from simple insolence
Cersei had come with her unsuspecting, thinking she was along to serve and pour . Even when Qyburn clapped the chain around her wrist, she had not seemed to understand . The queen was soaking pleasantly in the warm water and contemplating what she would say .
Jaime laughed. He is no help at all. Does he think this is amusing? The queen slapped the water angrily. “Must I send for Pate? You do not command me. I am your mother.” He crossed his arms.
“Perhaps,” the queen allowed. “So long as I hear no more nonsense about jousting.” “Good. Now run along. My guests will be here shortly.” Tommen ran along, but before he left he turned back to say, “When I'm king in my own right, I’m going to outlaw beets.” Cersei slapped the water once again, sending up another splash to wash across his feet . “Your bloody walls are fine. I’
Cersei was tired of Jaime balking her. No one had ever balked her lord father . When Tywin Lannister spoke, men obeyed. It is all because I am a woman . They gave Robert more respect than they give me, and Robert was a witless sot .
Dorcas helped the queen into her new gown . It had stripes of shiny green satin alternating with stripes of plush black velvet . She had ordered the value of the gowns deducted from the women’s wages .
Lady Falyse looked as if she were about to cry . "Your Grace is good to ask. He did what he could. Now we pray, but..." She will still be dead before the moon turns .
Septon Ollidor was on the verge of being chosen, until some of these sparrows followed him to a brothel and dragged him naked out into the street . Lollys is a simple creature, and her husband is given to black humors .
Ser Balman had been a noted jouster once, and one of the handsomest knights in the Seven Kingdoms . He could still boast a handsome mustache; elsewise, he had not aged well . His wavy blond hair had retreated, while his belly advanced inexorably against his doublet .
The Imp vanished the night my father died, leaving two honest gaolers behind in pools of blood . Some claim he fled across the narrow sea, but I wonder . “Your Grace, I think I should have noticed a dwarf skulking about our lands,” said Ser Balman . "My good wife flatters them, to call them knights," she sobbed .
Ser Balman had to bite her lip. My enemies are everywhere and my friends are fools . "You are a true knight indeed, ser. The answer to a frightened mother’s prayers." Cersei kissed Falyse. "We Lannisters pay our debts."
Cersei was surprised to find three black kittens cuddled up beside him . Margaery’s clumsy attempts at seduction were so obvious as to be laughable . It had to have been the madness that led Aerys to refuse Lord Tywin’s daughter .
Princess Rhaegar Targaryen had worn black plate over golden ringmail . By night the prince played his silver harp and made her weep . When she had been presented to him, Cersei had almost drowned in the depths .
Jeyne ran shrieking from the tent in fear, the queen remembered, but Melara stayed and so did I . We let her taste our blood, and laughed at her stupid prophecies . There had been no final feast, no toasts to celebrate her betrothal .
Ser Hyle Hunt claimed to have lost all sense of smell by then . "Tarly will want them for the walls," he said. "The flesh will rot. Leave them." It was cold and wet on Crackclaw Point as they retraced their steps .
Lord Tarly and Brienne were ushered into Tarly’s presence in the yard of Mooton’s castle . The heads had been presented to a serjeant of the guard, who was told to have them cleaned and tarred and mounted above the gate . “The way she fought, she could have killed three more.” “A pity. Well, you’ve had your taste of blood. Proved whatever it is you meant to prove. It’s time you took off that mail
Clegane, Dondarrion, the red priest, and now this woman Stoneheart... how do you propose to find them, when I cannot?” “My lord, I...” She had no good answer for him. “Try, then. You have your letter, you do not need my leave, but I’ll give it nonetheless.” “If you’re fortunate, all you’ll get for your trouble are saddle sores.” Randyll Tarly had plainly had enough of the conversation .
There were still inns in Maidenpool; Ser Hyle had not been wrong . Some had burned during one sack or the other, however . There were no beds to be had anywhere .
The local fisherfolk were tying up for the night and crying the day’s catch . She and Podrick Payne made the rounds of the ships that remained . The master of the Gulltown Girl took Brienne for a whore and told them his ship was not a bawdy house .
Thrice Brienne woke when the rain began, and once at a creak that made her think Nimble Dick was creeping in to kill her . The second time, she woke with knife in hand, but it was nothing . They danced around her, mocking her, pinching at her as she slashed at them with her sword . She woke sweating, and spent the rest of the night huddled under her cloak .
Podrick Payne washed his down with wine-flavored water whilst Brienne nursed a cup of watered wine and wondered why she’d come . Hyle Hunt was no true knight. He is probably not even coming .
Ser Hyle drew a roll of sheepskin from his boot, pushed the sausages aside, and unrolled it . Lord Randyll is putting it about that they did in hopes of turning the commons against Beric and his brotherhood . He will never take the lightning lord so long as the smallfolk are protecting him .
Septon Meribald is a river-born and river-bred and has served here all his life . He’s departing on the morrow to make his circuit, and he always calls at Saltpans . You and Podrick can go wherever you bloody well like . “Did Lord Randyll command you to follow me again?” “He is no longer my lord.” That took her aback .
Septon Meribald was a septon without a sept, only one step up from a brother in the hierarchy of the Faith . There were hundreds like him, a ragged band whose humble task was to trudge from one flyspeck of a village to the next .
The septon had a seamed, windburnt face, a shock of thick grey hair, wrinkles at the corners of his eyes . He had the biggest feet that Brienne had ever seen, bare and black and hard as horn . “There is no cobbler above,” Podrick protested .
Seven Who Are One is one god with seven aspects . I am old, though, and being old, I love the Smith . Every town has a smith, and every castle. They make the plows we need to plant our crops, the nails we use to build our ships, iron shoes to save our horses .
Ser Hyle and the others had made to see who could bed her first . "We’re looking for a maiden," confided Podrick Payne . “Most travelers do all they can to avoid such men,” said Septon Meribald .
Sepon Meribald afoot and his donkey bearing such a heavy load, the going was slow all that day . Instead they struck off toward the northwest, following the shore of the Bay of Crabs . The steep hills, black bogs, and piney woods of Crackclaw Point were nowhere to be found this side of Maidenpool . There were no trees for leagues around, just sea and sky and sand .
Some lived amongst the reeds in houses built of mud and straw . Others fished the bay in leather coracles and built their homes on rickety wooden stilts above the dunes . Most seemed to live alone, out of sight of any human habitation but their own .
“I will be forty years soon,” the septon said, and his dog gave a loud bark . He chuckled, “I should. My feet have trod every mile of them, ten times over.” “The Seven are always with me,” Podrick Payne said .
The wolves have grown terrible of late. There are places where a man alone would do well to find a tree to sleep in . "I have been spared that, Seven save me, but I have heard them in the night, and more than once. They say the pack is led by a monstrous she-wolf, a stalking shadow grim and grey and huge. They will tell you that she has been known to bring aurochs down all by herself, that no trap nor snare can hold her
Septon Meribald shivered through the morning air as the tide came rushing in . The men were out fishing in their coracles, but the women and young boys clambered down dangling rope ladders and gathered around the old watchtower . “Only three?” Ser Hyle smiled, leaving them with some turnips, a sack of beans, and two of his precious oranges .
Broken men are more deserving of our pity, though they may be just as dangerous . The singers love to sing of good men forced to go outside the law to fight some wicked lord . They are evil men, driven by greed, soured by malice, despising the gods and caring only for themselves .
Brothers watch their brothers die, fathers lose their sons, friends see their friends trying to hold their entrails in after they’ve been gutted by an axe . There is never enough to eat, their shoes fall to pieces from the marching, their clothes are torn and rotting, and half of them are shitting in their breeches from drinking bad water . They slaughter their sheep and steal their chickens, and from there it’s just a short step to carrying off their
The broken man lives from day to day, from meal to meal, more beast than man . Lady Brienne could hear wind rustling through a clump of pussywillows . She could hear Dog panting softly as he loped along beside the septon .
Dareon was supposed to be his brother. Ask him to sing, and no one could be better . Gilly looked at him with eyes red-rimmed and puffy . It had been days since they’d last had a fire, yet the wildling girl liked to huddle near the hearth .
Darkness was falling across the secret city, creeping through the alleys and down the canals . The good folk of Braavos would soon be shuttering their windows and sliding bars across their doors . Dareon was trying to write a song about one courtesan who had heard him singing beside the Moon Pool and rewarded him with a kiss .
Maester Aemon's wits were wandering more and more since they arrived at Braavos . Some days he would lose his way when saying something and begin to ramble on about his father or brother . Sam felt the old man’s brow, cool and clammy to the touch, his every breath a soft wheeze .
It was the fourth or fifth time they’d had this same conversation . Sam had squandered the last of their silver on a healer from the House of the Red Hands . "This may help gentle his passing," the Braavosi had said, not unkindly .
A ship from the Seven Kingdoms would be their best hope . A trader out of Oldtown, maybe, with kin in the Night’s Watch . No one had been eating by the time they saw the Titan .
Dareon had promised to buy some with the coin from his singing . The good water came over the arches of the great brick aqueduct the Braavosi called the sweetwater river . Rich men had it piped into their homes; the poor filled their pails and buckets at public fountains .
Maester Aemon was in no state to brave salt spray and wet winds along the waterfront, and Braavosi traders tied up beneath the domes and towers of the Sealord’s Palace . To the west was the Ragman’s Harbor, crowded with ships from the other Free Cities, from Westeros and Ibben and the fabled, far-off lands of the east .
Dareon may have made up the whole story. Singers do that. They make things up. Find that truth for me, Sam. You speak more tongues than I do, once you are stronger, Sam? Tell me that.” Sam is afraid, Sam realized .
Aemon’s fingers trembled, twigs sheathed in spotted skin . “The grief and glory of my House, they were.” “The last dragon died before you were born,” said Sam. “I see a red star bleeding in the sky. I still remember red.” He closed his white eyes wearily, then forced them open once again.
The Stranger waits outside the door. Gilly nodded, cradling the babe against her breast, her eyes welling full of tears . Sam went out through the former, to avoid the common room where the innkeep was sure to give him the sour eye that he reserved for guests who had overstayed their welcome .
Sam had read a history of Braavos and dreamed of one day coming here . He wanted to behold Titan rising stern and fearsome from the sea . But now that he was here, all he wanted was to leave and go to Oldtown . His swordbelt kept threatening to fall down about his ankles .
Dareon preferred the Ragman’s Harbor, where patrons were more apt to speak the Common Tongue . Sam began his search at the Inn of the Green Eel, the Black Bargeman, and Moroggo’s .
“My friend Terro says that the rattle of your sword makes his head ache.” He was speaking in the Common Tongue . The other one, the dark-haired bravo in the burgundy brocade and yellow cloak, made some comment in Braavosi . “I’m not—” was all he managed .
“Don’t do that either,” said the barrow girl . “I used to be someone, but now I’m not. You can call me Cat, if you like.” “Samwell, of House Tarly. You speak the Common Tongue.”
Sam and Dareon had stood on the dock watching the rise and fall of her oars as she beat for the Titan and the open sea . Sam had done all the talking, trying to persuade the Braavosi to wait for them . The captain had visited the inn the night before to see Maester Aemon for himself .
Sam had seen the Mummer’s Ship. Dareon cannot wed! He said the words! “I have to go.” He ran. It was a long way over slick cobbles . He had to keep one hand on his swordbelt as he ran .
A Tyroshi sailor was passed out in a corner, snoring into his huge scarlet beard . Elsewhere an older woman with huge breasts was turning tiles with a massive Summer Islander in black-and-scarlet feathers . “Slayer,” the singer called out drunkenly, “come meet my lady wife.” He kissed her nose .
Dareon pushed himself to his feet, took his bride by the hand, and started toward the stairs, pulling her behind him . “I’ll go,” said Sam, “but you’ll come with me.” “You’re ruining my wedding.”
Dareon tore his cloak off his naked bride and tossed it in Sam’s face . Sam threw himself onto the singer and knocked him backwards over a low table . He punched the singer in the face and in the belly, then began to pummel him .
The brine stung his eyes when he opened them, blinding him . He popped to the surface for just an instant, sucked down air, and slapped desperately with one hand whilst the other scrabbled at the wall of the canal . Sam could feel the cold against his skin as the water soaked through his clothes . His swordbelt slipped down his legs and tangled round his ankles .
Summer Islander punched him in the belly again, and more water came squirting out his nose . He grabbed Sam’s doublet with a huge black fist and hauled him to his feet . The water ruined Xhondo’s fine cloak. It had, Sam saw. Too much splashing. Fat men should float .
"All the color is draining out of you, brother. You’ve become a ghost of what you were, a pale crippled thing. And so bloodless, always in white," Cersei flicked the hair away . "I prefer you garbed in crimson and gold." He wanted to kiss her, carry her to her bedchamber, throw her on the bed... She’s been fucking Lancel and Osmund Kettleblack and Moon Boy... she’s
Ser Loras is thrice the man Ser Osmund is . "I will not leave my daughter to their mercy," Cersei slapped her skirt .
Jaime turned on his heel and left her. Somewhere the gods were laughing . Part of him would be glad to put King’s Landing behind him . Half were westermen sworn to House Lannister, the others recently turned doubtful friends .
Ser Jaime wore trappings of Lannister crimson; Honor was barded in Kingsguard white . The palfrey was skinny as a spear, with long arms and legs, greasy mouse-brown hair, and cheeks soft with peach fuzz . Jaime would not show the crowds a golden lie .
Ser Ilyn had swallowed his boy king’s command like a good little Lord Commander . The other half had been Ser Addam Marbrand. “I need them,” he told his sister, and Cersei had not put up a fight. Most like she’s pleased to rid herself of them.
Ser Addam Marbrand with outriders, Ser Steffon Swyft and the baggage train . Maester Gulian with four cages full of ravens, two hundred heavy horse under Ser Flement Brax . Numbers were the last thing needed at Riverrun . Brynden Tully had scoured the land clean before retiring behind his walls .
Ser Ilyn Payne seemed as comfortable in his silence as in his rusted ringmail and boiled leather . The clop of his gelding’s hooves and the rattle of sword in scabbard whenever he shifted his seat were the only sounds he made .
Jaime sought out Ser Ilyn’s chambers at the end of Traitor’s Walk . The entrance to the dungeons proper was at ground level, behind a door of hammered iron and a second of splintery grey wood .
Payne’s greatsword rested on a table beside a whetstone and a greasy oilcloth . The steel was immaculate, the edge glimmering blue in the pale light . Jaime could not count the broken wine jars, and the bits of mail and armor scattered here and there were red with rust .
The golden hand was wrought of gold, very lifelike, with inlaid nails of mother-of-pearl, its fingers and thumb half closed so as to slip around a goblet’s stem . The armorer assured him the first time he’d fitted it onto Jaime’s wrist . After that there was no more talk about his hand, and he managed to drink some wine in peace .
The boy was last seen ahorse when the press of the mob broke the line of gold cloaks . Addam Marbrand offered as he boned his fish, but found no more than Bywater had before him . “Any Lannister would bring a hefty ransom. The boy is simply gone.” “The boy is dead.” “Always,” Strongboar agreed .
Jaime found two shields, two halfhelms, and a pair of blunted tourney swords . He offered one to Payne and took the other in his left hand as he slid his right through the loops of the shield . The silent knight was content to let Jaime lead the dance for a while, but finally he began to answer stroke for stroke .
Ser Ilyn opened his mouth and made a clacking sound . He grinned at him. "They have lusty wenches in House Hayford. These are love bites, lad." They fought inside a stable as a one-eyed mule looked on, and in an inn amongst the casks of wine and ale .
Ser Roger Hogg was squatting stubbornly in his towerhouse with six men-at-arms, four crossbowmen, and a score of peasants . Ser Kennos suggested that he might be some lost Crakehall, since their sigil was a brindled boar . He was more interested in what Hogg had to say of wolves .
"Which we’re no part of," Ser Roger Hogg said stoutly . "My fealty’s owed to House Hayford, and Lady Ermesande bends her little knee at King’s Landing, or will when she’s old enough to walk." "Plant," said Jaime, "and pray for one last harvest."
The world grew ever greyer as they drew near to Harrenhal . They rode beneath slate skies, beside waters that shone old and cold as a sheet of beaten steel . Jaime found himself wondering if Brienne might have passed this way before him .
A handful of Ser Gregor’s men emerged from the towers to watch him dismount . “Fuck me, Jaime Lannister,” blurted one grey and grizzled man-at-arms . The man took that for encouragement, and started laughing too .
Sandor had some boy with him, a ragged peasant lad. They hacked Polly and the Tickler to bloody bits and rode off down the Trident, we were told . “We’re bad, m’lord,” broke in the man who wore the coins, “but you’d need to be mad to face the Hound.” Jaime looked him over. Bolder than the rest, and not as drunk as Shitmouth .
Hoat’s lips had been sliced off, along with his ears and most of his nose . It was still recognizably Hoat, however . Shitmouth lowered his eyes, and muttered, "Rotted, ser. And et." Father, Jaime thought, your dogs have both gone mad.
Jaime tossed Hoat’s head to Peck, and turned to address the garrison . Ser Bonifer Hasty shall hold Harrenhal in the name of the crown . The Mountain’s men looked at one another .
Ser Wylis Manderly was amongst them, along with several other highborn northmen taken prisoner by the Mountain That Rides in the fighting at the fords of the Trident . They were ragged, filthy, and shaggy to a man, and some had fresh bruises, cracked teeth, and missing fingers . No one had any inkling what they’d been eating, and decided it was better not to inquire .
Ser Bonifer Hasty commanded that fires be lit in the Hall of a Hundred Hearths . He sent the cook hobbling back to the kitchens to prepare a hot meal for the men of his column . "I want none of Ser Gregor’s followers," he declared as he was cutting up a pear .
“Pia was born in this castle,” says Ser Bonifer . “I expect her flaunting days are done,” he said . They should actually be called the Holy Eighty-Six .
Hasty hailed from the stormlands, so had neither friends nor foes along the Trident . He was sober, just, and dutiful, and his Holy Eighty-Six were as well disciplined as any soldiers in the Seven Kingdoms . They had not disgraced themselves on the Blackwater, so far as he knew .
"I fear no shade, ser. It is written in The Seven-Pointed Star that spirits, wights, and revenants cannot harm a pious man so long as he is armored in his faith," Hasty folded his hands before him like a steeple . "If it is Sandor Clegane that we encounter, what would you have me do?" Jaime says .
Jaime wished to fight. He took the steps two at a time, out to where the night air was cold and crisp . He passed beneath the covered bridge and through the Flowstone Yard before he realized where he was headed .
Red Ronnet raised his lantern. “I wished to see where the bear danced with the maiden not-so-fair.” His beard shone in the light as if it were afire . Jaime felt a pang of pity for the beast. At least he died in battle .
Jon Connington had chopped Lord Jon after the Battle of the Bells, stripping him of honors, lands, and wealth, and packing him off across the sea to die in exile . The cousin, though—Red Ronnet’s father—had joined the rebellion and been rewarded with Griffin’s Roost after the Trident . For any such, the Maid of Tarth would have been a sweet plum indeed.
Cersei recalled the bard from Tommen’s wedding . “Many and more, Your Grace.” “She says she is, Your grace.” “What do you say?” Taena’s black eyes sparkled with mischief .
A lord’s daughter was more like to give her maidenhead to a horse than a husband . Margaery Tyrell had been riding since she was old enough to walk . The Redwyne twins, Ser Tallad... who else, pray tell?” Lady Merryweather gave a shrug .
The Myrish woman looked almost shocked . "I have had a most wicked thought, Your Grace." "Perhaps too much prayer robs a man of his sense of smell. I shall be sure to ask His High Holiness," Lady Taena said .
King Baelor the Blessed a simple stonemason was chosen as High Septon . He worked stone so beautifully that Baelor decided he was the Smith reborn in mortal flesh . Some still claimed that Baele’s Hand had the man poisoned to spare the realm embarrassment .
"You should bring this son of yours to court," Cersei told Lady Merryweather . "Six is not too young. Tommen needs other boys about him. Why not your son?" Joffrey had never had a close friend of his own age, that she recalled .
Ser Meryn Trant wore white scale armor beneath his cloak . His helm and shield were slung from his saddle . "I do not care to be caught up in another riot," Lady Merryweather agreed .
Aurane had asked her leave to name her Lord Tywin . Other ships would be named Sweet Cersei, and would bear a gilded figurehead . The queen had made the mistake of telling Tommen he might name the last five .
Ser Osmund rode ser Osfryd, mounted on a stallion as golden as his cloak . He had even had the temerity to object to her sending to Dorne for a master-at-arms . "Why do you think I’m doing it?" she asked him scornfully .
Cersei wore a white gown slashed with cloth-of-gold, lacy but demure . It had been several years since the last time she had donned it . Some of the sparrows looked gaunt and hollow-eyed enough to eat her horses .
a crow sat atop one such, enjoying a dry, leathery feast . A one-legged man stepped forward, leaning on a wooden crutch . "Your Grace, these are the bones of holy men and women, murdered for their faith."
“The Iron Throne must defend the Faith,” growled a hulking lout with a seven-pointed star painted on his brow . “A king who does not protect his people is no king at all.” Mutters of assent went up from those around him . One man had the temerity to grasp Ser Meryn by the wrist and say, “I hear you,” Cersei said .
Raynard and Septon Torbert are of the Most Devout, Cersei said . “You are welcome here, but your men must leave their swordbelts.” “Your Grace” said a greybeard with a stooped shoulder .
The queen looked over at the old men on their knees . The queen knew that she should kneel, but the floor was wet with soap and dirty water . She let him see her anger .
The Most Devout must have been mad as well, to elevate this creature... mad, or terrified of the beggars at their doors . Qyburn’s whisperers claimed that Septon Luceon had been nine votes from elevation when those doors had given way, and the sparrows came pouring into the Great Sept with their leader on their shoulders and their axes in their hands .
Septon was leading a hundred sparrows in prayer, their voices as distant as waves upon the shore . The High Septon led Cersei to where the Crone raised her lantern . There are seven hells, any one of them will serve .
King Baelor imprisoned his own sisters, whose only crime was being beautiful . She pinched the little monster till he cried . "Most have lost their homes. Suffering is everywhere... and grief, and death," she says .
It is traditional for every new High Septon to give the king his blessing... and yet you have refused to bless King Tommen.” “Your Grace is mistaken. We have not refused.” “You have not come.” “The hour is not yet ripe.” Are you a priest or a greengrocer? “And what might I do to make it... riper?” If he dares mention gold, I will deal with this one as I did the last .
"Only King Tommen defends the Holy Faith," Cersei reminded him . "Your Grace has seen the bones and skulls of our holy dead?" "I have," she had to say .
The Warrior would lift his shining sword again and cleanse this sinful realm of all its evil . If His Grace allowed me to restore the ancient blessed orders of the Sword and Star, every godly man in the Seven Kingdoms would know him to be our true and rightful lord .
Lady Merryweather shared the queen’s delight, though she had never heard of the Warrior’s Sons or the Poor Fellows . They were an order of knights who gave up their lands and gold and swore their swords to His High Holiness, Cersei explained to her . The lord father had rid King’s Landing of the plague of sparrows, secured Tommen’s blessing, and lessened the crown’s debt by close to a million dragons.
Margaery Tyrell and her cousins were returning from a ride to Aegon's High Hill . They encountered the little queen when they met and fell in beside the queen's litter . The hippocras was as sweet and savory as Cersei’s triumph, and the queen’s litter seemed almost to float across the city .
Lady Margaery was always giving alms to beggars, buying hot pies off bakers’ carts, and reining up to speak to common tradesmen . She had given her consent a few times, if only to allow Ser Osney to spend more hours in Margaerie’s company . But the king was deaf to sense, thanks to his little queen .
Margaery and her hideous grandmother had once plotted to marry Sansa Stark . Lord Tywin had forestalled that by stealing a march on them . The Tyrells bribed the gaolers to free Tyrion, and whisked him down the roseroad to join his vile bride .
Lady Margaery smiled at Ser Loras; a sweet sisterly smile, full of fondness . “Your Grace is kind to fear for me, but my brother keeps me well protected.” “Might we share the jest?” The queen said .
The Iron Victory raked her side so hard that half the boarding party lost their feet . Oars snapped and splintered sweet music to the captain’s ears . The white roses drew back, as men always did at the sight of Victarion Greyjoy armed and armored .
Victarion spun and slammed his axe down onto the spearman’s head . It felt as though someone had slapped him on the back . The iron captain wrenched the steel free and sent his corpse staggering loose-limbed across the deck .
Ser Talbert's longsword was good castle-forged steel, and the young knight made it sing . His first cut was low, and Victarion deflected it off his axe . Serry’s shield got in the way, and Wooden splinters flew .
a thick knot of foemen fought on, standing shoulder to shoulder in a ring . The Drowned God had not shaped Victarion Greyjoy to fight with words at kingsmoots . They hacked at him from front and back, but their swords might have been willow switches for all the harm they did him . Let three men assail him, or four, or five; it made no matter .
The last man to face him must have been a smith; he had shoulders like a bull . His armor was a studded brigandine and a cap of boiled leather . When he jerked his axehead free again, the skull seemed to burst .
The men of Shield Islands called themselves sailors, but they crossed the seas in dread . Young Serry had been different. A brave man, thought Victarion. He gave the captured ship to Ragnor Pyke . He clambered back up onto his own Iron Victory .
Euron had seduced them with his glib tongue and smiling eye and bound them to his cause with the plunder of half a hundred distant lands . The other captains would shout his brother’s name anew when the tidings reached Oakenshield . Euron has given them conquest, and they are his for good and all, the captain thought .
Mander was a lazy river, wide and slow and treacherous with snags and sandbars . Most seagoing vessels dared not sail beyond Highgarden, but longships with their shallow draughts could navigate as far upstream as Bitterbridge . In ancient days, the ironborn had boldly sailed the river road and plundered all along the Mander and its vassal streams .
Warhorns would echo across the waters, from Greenshield and Greyshielde . Their longships would come sliding out from moss-covered stone pens along the shores . Euron had sent Torwold Browntooth and the Red Oarsman up the Mander . By the time his main fleet arrived, only a handful of fighting men remained to defend the isles themselves .
The Ironborn ran their longships up onto the shingles and spilled out into the purple dusk with steel glimmering in their hands . By then the fires were burning in the high places, but few remained to take up arms . The Iron Fleet fell out as Euron said it would, Victarion told the dusky woman as she bound up his hand with linen .
Aeron had prophesied back on Old Wyk . “We must stop him, brother. We are still of Balon’s blood, are we not?” Victarion had said .
"The ironborn shall be waves," the Damphair said . The captains and the kings raised Euron up, but the common folk shall tear him down . Aeron Greyjoy had vanished from Old Wyk .
The new-crowned king had given Victarion the dusky woman, taken off some slaver bound for Lys . She was undamaged, and beautiful besides, with skin as brown as oiled teak . When she returned with a skin of sour red, the captain took it up on deck . The Iron Victory lingered for hours off the mouth of the Mander .
"Though it is a great sin to kill your king," he frowned . "Asha should have given me her voice," Balon's blood is in her, but she is still a woman . The night the driftwood crown was placed on Euron’s head, she and her crew had melted away .
A gang of sullen survivors moved amongst them, chasing off the black birds and tossing the dead into the back of a wagon for burial . There were no slaves in the Iron Islands, only thralls . A man paid the iron price, or else had none .
"The strong have always taken from the weak," said Nute the Barber . "Thralls or slaves, it makes no matter. Their men could not defend them, so now they are ours, to do with as we will," he said .
“Lord Tarly bears the greatsword Heartsbane, forged of Valyrian steel, and he is always in Lord Tyrell’s van.” Victarion’s hunger flared . He would give half his teeth for the chance to try his axe against the Kingslayer or the Knight of Flowers .
Ironborn filled the tables, boasting of the men that they had slain, the deeds they had done, the prizes they had won . Left-Hand Lucas Codd and Quellon Humble had torn tapestries off the walls to serve as cloaks . Andrik the Unsmiling staggered by with a woman under each arm .
Hotho Harlaw had never fought a man armed with a Valyrian steel blade . He had thrashed young Harras Harlaw many a time when both were young .
The Crow’s Eye had claimed the place of honor at his lordship’s right hand . A pretty, buxom girl of seventeen or eighteen years was in his lap barefoot and disheveled, her arms around his neck . There were roast ox, rare and bloody, and buckets of fresh crabs as well .
Euron kissed her throat and whispered something in his ear . They made a rosy necklace about her neck and shoulders . It was kingsmoot come again .
The Knight stood, one hand upon Nightfall’s moonstone pommel . “Rise, Andrik the Unsmiling, Lord of Greenshield.” Volmark stood hesitantly, looking like a mountain rising sudden from the sea . The Knight was the Reader’s chosen heir, and The Knight... Victarion grabbed him by the forearm .
King Euron called to Lady Hewett for a fresh cup of wine and raised it high above his head . There is no wine so sweet as wine taken from a foe . One day I shall drink your wine, Crow’s Eye, and take from you all that you hold dear.
The Reader walked forward, sounding all the hazards . The Dornish coast is dry and bleak, four hundred leagues of whirlpools and cliffs .
“Are we slavers now?” asked the Reader . “Slaver’s Bay is too far,” called out Ralf the Limper. “And too close to Valyria,” shouted Quellon Humble .
Darkness gathered beyond the walls, but inside the torches burned with a ruddy orange glow . Drunken men began to dance the finger dance . At some point Left-Hand Lucas Codd decided he wanted one of Lord Hewett’s daughters . He took her on a table whilst her sisters screamed and sobbed .
“No man ever truly knows what he can do unless he dares to leap.” “There is the window. Leap.” Victarion had no patience for this . The wind came gusting through the window and stirred his sable cloak .
The Iron Fleet is mine, Victarion thought . The Crow’s Eye filled two cups with a strange black wine that flowed as thick as honey . Euron drank deep from his own cup and smiled .
"You shall follow me as I followed Balon... and your own trueborn sons shall one day follow you," Euron chuckled . Euron’s gifts are poisoned, he reminded himself, but still... "The choice is yours, brother. Live a thrall or diea king. Do you dare to fly? Unless you take the leap, you’ll never know."
JAIME The fields outside the walls of Darry were being tilled once more . The burned crops had been plowed under, and a team of oxen broke new ground on the edge of a nearby wood . By the time Jaime and his column reached the castle, all of them had fled within the walls .
Jaime had charged Red Ronnet with the task of delivering Wylis Manderly to Maidenpool . She’s known no home but Harrenhal, he reflected . Every castle in the realm will seem small to her, except the Rock .
Darry had changed hands several times during the fighting, and its castle had been burned once and sacked at least twice . The castle gates were newly hung, raw oaken planks reinforced with iron studs . A new stable was going up where an older one had been put to the torch .
Ser Kevan was the only uncle he had left, the last surviving son of Tytos Lannister . The maester pulled at the chain collar, as if it had grown too tight for him . Lady Amerei wished to welcome you herself, but she is seeing to the preparation of a feast in your honor .
Jaime and Cersei had been guests here twice before, once on their way to Winterfell with Robert, and again on the way back to King’s Landing . "Lord Lancel hopes one day to cover them with hangings," said Maester Ottomore .
In King’s Landing it had been rumored Lancel’s wounds had left him incapable . His cousin’s hold on his new lands would not be secure until he fathered a son on his half-Darry wife . He gave thanks to Ottomore and reminded him about the bath .
Pia is more fit for Tyrion’s bed than yours . She covered her mouth when she spoke, to hide her broken teeth . "If she’ll have you, take her. She’ll teach you a few things you’ll find useful on your wedding night, I don’t doubt, and you’re not like a bastard by her."
Jaime Lannister wore a doublet of red velvet slashed with cloth-of-gold . He had strapped on his golden hand as well, polished to a fine bright sheen . His duty awaited him at Riverrun; a darker need had brought him here . "My lord prefers to fast," said Lancel’s wife, Lady Amerei .
Lady Amerei had brought a score of Freys to Darry with her; a sister, an uncle, a half uncle, various cousins... and her mother, who had been born a Darry . She had only gone out to ransom Petyr Pimple. He brought them the gold they asked for, but they hung him anyway . When Jaime arrived, Merrett Frey had been the castle bully .
Father used to boast and lie, you mean. “We did.” Frey’s chief contributions consisted of contracting the pox from a camp follower and getting himself captured by the White Fawn . Merrett had not been able to sit down for a fortnight, though Jaime doubted that the red-hot iron was half so nasty as the kettles of shit his fellow squires made him eat once he was returned . Lady Amerei stopped wee
Lady Mariya's hair was streaked with grey, but she was still a handsome woman . Black Walder led hounds and hunters into Hag’s Mire after the others . The peasants denied seeing them, but when questioned sharply they sang a different song .
Harwyn Plumm's brothers were big, fleshy fellows with thick necks and red faces . Harwyn was a different sort of Plumm; hard-eyed and taciturn, unforgiving... and deadly, with his hammer in his hand . Lancel’s lady commanded that the first portion be served to Jaime .
"I would not put it past the crannogmen to shelter outlaws," said Lady Mariya . "Some of the river lords are hand in glove with Lord Beric’s men as well." "Ser Harwyn says they hide them and feed them," urged Strongboar .
Ser Arwood Frey recalls a man from tourneys past . "You can kill him, but he won’t stay dead," Strongboar said . “There is a knight at Saltpans,” Ser arwood said. “He hid behind his walls whilst Clegane and his mad dogs ravaged through his town. You have not seen the things he did, ser. I have. I rode down with Harys Haigh and his brother Donnel .
Sandor Clegane had been hard and brutal, yes, but it was his big brother who was the real monster . "Do not call it butchery," Lady Mariya said softly . This is a time for beasts, Jaime reflected, for lions and wolves and angry dogs .
The sparrows had gathered round a dozen cookfires to warm their hands against the chill of dusk . There had to be a hundred of them. Useless mouths . Jaime wondered how many sausages his cousin had laid by and how he intended to feed them once they were gone . The chances of another harvest were not good .
Lancel looked even thinner than he had at King’s Landing . The crown of his head had been shaved smooth, but his beard had grown out a little . He was dressed in a plain, roughspun tunic of undyed wool .
"I dreamed that you would come. In the dream you knew what I had done. You killed me for it." "If I do, will you eat a bowl of porridge?" Jaime sighed . "Better me than Blessed Baelor. Darry needs a lion, coz. She gets moist between the legs every time someone mentions Hardstone."
Lancel was wearing a hair shirt underneath his tunic . “You killed the king,” he said, “then you fucked the queen.” “I never...” “...lay with my sweet sister?” said Jaime. “...womb,” Lancel finished .
"Do not think ill of the queen," Lancel pleaded . "All flesh is weak, Jaime. No harm came of our sin. No... no bastard." "You confessed your sins to His High Holiness, did you?" "He prayed for me when I was wounded. He was a good man," he said .
"Why would the Iron Throne allow that?" asked Lancel softly . He glanced about the sept at the gods. The Mother, full of mercy. The Father, stern in judgment. The Stranger in the shadows, his half-human face concealed beneath a hooded mantle .
Ned Stark's daughter ran off after her wolf savaged Joff, you’ll recall . My sister wanted the girl to lose a hand . The old penalty, for striking one of the blood royal .
BRIENNE The septry stood upon an upthrust island half a mile from the shore . The wide mouth of the Trident widened further to kiss the Bay of Crabs . Its slope was covered with terraced fields, with fishponds down below and a windmill above .
Septon Meribald led his donkey down the slope, beckoning them to follow . "If you would sleep beneath a roof tonight, you must climb off your horses and cross the mud with me," he said .
Septon Meribald turned abruptly toward the south, so his back was almost to the septry . The dog stuck his nose in one and yelped when a crab pinched it with his claw . A brief but furious struggle ensued before the dog came trotting back, wet and mud-spattered .
Three men were waiting for them as they clambered up the broken stones . Two had wound lengths of wool about the lower halves of their faces . The third brother was the one to speak .
Brother Narbert led them along a pebbled path and through a grove of apple trees to a whitewashed stable . At one end were half a dozen mules, being tended by a bandy-legged little brother whom Brienne took for Gillam . Brother Gillam kicked Brother Rawney and broke his shinbone in two places .
Brother Narbert had erected a flight of wooden steps that wandered across the hillside and amongst the buildings . After a long day in the saddle Brienne was glad for a chance to stretch her legs . They passed a dozen brothers of the order on their way up; cowled men in dun-and-brown .
“The Hound?” said Brienne. “Another, just as brutal. He cut poor Clement’s tongue out when he would not speak . The Elder Brother keeps the worst of the tidings from outside to himself . “The war has never come here?” Brienne said .
The Elder Brother was not what Brienne had expected . He stood straight and tall, and moved with the vigor of a man in prime of his years . His head was large and square, his eyes shrewd, his nose veined and red .
Meribald was rubbing his foot, the mud flaking off beneath his finger . The good brothers collect the dead as well. Drowned cows, drowned deer, dead pigs .
Septon Meribald turned to the Elder Brother . "I hope that you have time to absolve us of our sins," he said . “I hope you have some better sins than the last time I came through.” Dog barked .
Ser Quincy Cox barred his gates when the outlaws entered the town and sat safe behind stone walls as his people screamed and died . "Ser Quincy is an old man," said Septon Meribald gently .
Septon Meribald and Ser Hyle drank the mead the brothers made, and pronounced it excellent, whilst she and Podrick contented themselves with more sweet cider . When the Elder Brother excused the musician to take his own meal, Brother Narbert and another proctor took turns reading from The Seven-Pointed Star .
Lady Brienne, would you allow me to show you the way? "We are guests of the holy brothers here. Beneath their roof, their rules" The women’s cottages were on the east side of the isle, looking out over a broad expanse of mud and the distant waters of the Bay of Crabs . The Elder Brother brought a lantern to light their way down .
The Elder Brother had called them modest. They looked like beehives made of stone, low and rounded, windowless . Brienne undid her swordbelt and hung it from the second chair, then sat cross-legged on the pallet . “May I stay a while? I feel that we should talk,” the Elder Brother began, “but I fear you did not understand him.” “You are chasing the wrong wolf, my lady,” Brienne said .
"May have been... meaning that you are not certain...?" "I am certain that the child was with Sandor Clegane at the inn beside the crossroads, the one old Masha Heddle used to keep, before the lions hanged her . There is one thing I do know, however. The man you hunt is dead" "I covered him with stones to keep the carrion eaters from digging up his flesh," "I can tell you where his grave lies, if you wish."
Sandor Clegane was Prince Joffrey’s sworn shield for many a year . He served, but found no pride in service. He drank, to drown his pain in a sea of wine . It was hate that drove him. He never sought forgiveness .
Destriers were trained to kick and bite. In war they were a weapon, like the men who rode them. Like the Hound. "Sandor Clegane is dead.” “He is at rest.” The Elder Brother paused. “You look more like a knight than you do a holy man.” It was written in his chest and shoulders, and across that thick square jaw.
I fought for Prince Rhaegar, though he never knew my name . He served a lord who had decided to support the dragon rather than the stag . The battle was a bloody thing .
Randyll Tarly is hunting them from Maidenpool and Walder Frey from the Twins . You have a home, which is more than many can say in these dark days . Consider his grief if you should never return . Perhaps they will bring your sword and shield to him, after you have fallen .
“I am the only child the gods let him keep. The freakish one, not fit to be a son or daughter.” Brienne’s eyes filled with tears . “I have to find her first. I have to try to save her... or die in the attempt,” she finished .
Ser Harys Swyft was wheezing to slap the Tyrell girl across the face . The torches on the back wall threw the long, barbed shadow of the Iron Throne halfway to the doors . She could not but feel that the shadows were closing around her too .
King Robert’s Hammer is the mightiest warship in all Westeros . Only half are fitted out, but none is fully crewed . Lord Balon’s Great Kraken and the warships of the Iron Fleet were made for battle, not for raids .
“You are wrong,” said Margaery Tyrell. “Reavers do not come in such strength. A thousand ships! Lord Hewett and Lord Chester are slain, as well as Lord Serry’s son and heir. Serry has fled to Highgarden with what few ships remain him. Lord Grimm is a prisoner in his own castle.
"Lord Stannis is striving to win the northmen to his cause," said Pycelle . "The northmen will not have him," said Cersei, wondering how such a learned man could be so stupid .
The Knight of Flowers put a hand upon Margaery’s shoulder . “If it please Your Grace, from those rocks the ironmen threaten Oldtown and the Arbor.” “Truly?” said the queen, all innocence. “How would the queen suggest they accomplish that, without sufficient ships?” asked Ser Loras .
Paxter Redwyne owned two hundred warships, five times as many merchant carracks, wine cogs, trading galleys, and whalers . The greater part of his fleet was engaged in ferrying men across Blackwater Bay for the assault on that island stronghold .
Ser Loras was pleased to see Margaery had gone pale . She kissed him on both cheeks and whispered, “You have a gallant brother” Cersei slipped out the king’s door behind the Iron Throne . Pycelle had to struggle to keep up.
Ser Loras lusts for glory as real men lust for women, the least the gods can do is grant him a death worthy of a song . No matter what befell the boy on Dragonstone, Stannis would suffer a grievous blow . Ser Osney will be there to console his grieving sister .
"This is King Tommen’s day, and so are his decrees," she said firmly . "Someone splendid," Lord Qyburn said as they crossed over the spiked moat that girded Maegor’s Holdfast . A bit of gallantry would not be amiss, but his head should not be full of foolish notions .
A candle was burning by her bedside, but the hearthfire had gone out . At night Cersei undressed and slipped beneath the blankets, leaving her gown to puddle on the floor . She had shared the queen’s bed more often than Lord Merryweather’s .
Ser Loras will sail for Dragonstone to win the castle, loose the Redwyne fleet, and prove his manhood to us all . "Without her valiant brother, our little queen is next to naked. She has her guards, to be sure, but I have their captain here and there about the castle," Cersei cautioned .
Taena rolled onto her side, her olive skin shining in the candlelight . Her breasts were larger than the queen’s and tipped with huge nipples . Cersei wondered what it would feel like to kiss another woman . Not lightly on the cheek, as was common courtesy amongst ladies .
During the first year of their marriage, Cersei had voiced her displeasure the next day . “It was not me, my lady,” he said in a sulky sullen tone . He reached for his horn of ale, so hard she chipped a tooth .
Lady Falyse slipped into a bedrobe and went to see who it was . “At this hour?” snapped Cersei . "If it please Your Grace, she’s... She’s not in a good way, if you take my meaning.” The guard hesitated .
Ser Balman challenged Bronn to single combat? The lance is a kn-knight’s weapon, he said, and B-Bronn was no knight . Your cretin of a husband wrote his own death warrant . “I asked you to arrange a hunting mishap. An arrow gone astray, a fall from a horse, an angry boar...” Cersei said .
Bronn said he'd pass me around to the g-g-garrison, if any of them would have me . He called him Lord Stokeworth!” Lady Falyse clutched at the queen’s hand . Brons said they were his wife’s clothes now, all my s-silks and velvets .
"The silent sisters are always glad to welcome widows," Cersei said . She could not have the woman running about the Seven Kingdoms spreading dangerous tales . "All we did, we did in service to Your Grace. Proud to Be Faithful. You said... I recall."
“Good.” The queen donned her smile once again . “Sweet Falyse, Maester Qyburn’s here. He’ll help you rest.” “Oh, good.” “I am surrounded by enemies and imbeciles,” she said . She could not trust to her own blood and kin, nor Jaime, who had once been her other half .
Taena had drifted back to sleep by the time the queen returned to the bedchamber, her head spinning . Too much wine and too little sleep, she told herself. It was not every night that she was awakened twice with such desperate tidings . It pleased her to think that she made a better king than Robert . Does she dream of Myr? she wondered .
Taena’s hair was as black as Robert’s, even down between her legs . When Cersei touched her there she found her hair sopping wet . There was no pleasure in it, not for her . Ten thousand of your children perished in my palm, Your Grace .
JAIME The trumpets made a brazen blare, and cut the still blue air of dusk . Josmyn Peckledon was scrambling for his master’s swordbelt . "I shan’t need my sword. That will be my cousin, the Warden of the West."
Daven Lannister vowed I would not let my hair be cut until my father was avenged . He pushed his fingers through his hair where the weight of the steel had crushed it down . “We feared for you after the Whispering Wood. Heard Stark’s direwolf tore out your throat.” “Did you weep bitter tears for me, coz?” Jaime asked .
Ser Daven shrugged out of his cloak and tossed it at Little Lew . “I beat your brother bloody in a mêlée once.” “More’s the pity. Your sigil has nice teats. What sort of man hide behind a naked woman?” Jaime asked .
Ser Daven snorted. "You must be more dangerous than you look, lad. Is that a beard, or did you forget to wash the dirt off your face?" Jaime lifted his own cup left-handed and took a swallow . The warmth spread through his chest .
Lady Amerei's mother is a Darry. Our uncle thought she’d help Lancel win the Darry smallfolk . She raises her portcullis for every knight who happens by. Gatehouse Ami must be more stoatish than I’d heard if she could drive the boy to that .
Ryman Frey has raised a gibbet, drapes a noose around his neck, and threatens to hang him unless the castle yields . Lord Edmure Tully bedded her, after the Red Wedding? The Blackfish pays his mummer’s show no mind, so come evenfall is taken down again .
Lord Emmon wants Edmure hanged at once . The presence of a Tully Lord of Riverrun distresses him almost as much as the prospective birth of yet another . He beseeches me to make Ser Ryman dangle Tully, never mind how .
The Blackfish expelled all the useless mouths from Riverrun and picked this country clean . "So long as there are fish in the rivers, we won’t starve," says Ser Daven . Half the men I send off to look for food do not return .
Ser Daven put his wine cup down . "Thoros is with Dondarrion, the fat Myrish priest who used to drink with Robert" The Blackfish appeared on ramparts long enough to say that he would not waste fair words on foul men . The horse reared, Frey fell into the mud, and I almost pissed myself .
“Whatever we do needs to be done quickly,” Jaime told Ser Daven . “My place is back at King’s Landing, with the king.” “Aye,” his cousin said. “I don’t doubt your sister needs you. Why did she send off Kevan? He would not take it.” “He knows.” “How is Cersei? As beautiful as ever?” “Radiant.” Fickle. “Golden.” True as fool’s gold.
a young knight asked his counsel on the best way to defend against a warhammer . At one cookfire three crossbowmen offered him a share of a hare they’d caught . The girls were half-drunk and half-naked, laughing and snapping rolled-up cloaks at one another .
Jaime clapped the man’s shoulder with his golden hand . They rode back along the Red Fork to the ruins of a burned village they had passed that afternoon . It was there they danced their midnight dance, amongst blackened stones and old cold cinders . Perhaps his old skill was coming back, he allowed himself to think .
Jaime felt the iron teeth of that wind as he rode beside his cousin Daven . The Tully castle looked like a great stone ship with its prow pointed downriver . Its sandstone walls were drenched in red-gold light, and seemed higher and thicker than Jaime had remembered .
The Frey lordlings and their knights had raised their pavilions comfortably upstream of the latrine trenches . downstream were muddy hovels, wayns, and oxcarts. “Ser Ryman don’t want his boys getting bored, so he gives them whores and cockfights and boar baiting”
Ser Brynden was younger then than I am now, Jaime reflected . The nearest ford across the Red Fork was upstream of the castle . Jaime noted the banners of Lychester and Vance .
Ser Hugo and Ser Dermot led Jaime’s way across the river . The Lannister camp rang to the sound of wooden hammers . Between them sat a rolling ram; a tree trunk with a fire-hardened point suspended on chains beneath a wooden roof .
Genna Lannister had been a shapely woman in her youth, always threatening to overflow her bodice . She had been pinching his ear for as long as he could remember, but today she forbore . Emmon Frey was a weed in wool, with no chin to speak of, a flaw that the prominence of the apple in his throat made even more absurd .
"Some queer tales have been reaching us of late," Lady Genna said . The weight of Tyrion slew Tywin had grown irksome . He fumbled at the straps that secured it to his wrist .
Lord Emmon has a decree signed by the king, by Tommen, see, the royal seal, the stag and lion . "I am the lawful lord of Riverrun, and I will not have it reduced to a smoking ruin," his wife snapped . Lady Genna remained very much a Lannister .
Lord Emmon Frey had arrived at Casterly Rock in his fourteenth year to wed a lioness half his age . Tyrion used to say that Lord Tywin had given him a nervous belly for a wedding gift . Jaime remembered many a feast where Emmon sat poking at his food sullenly while his wife made ribald jests .
Emm will make a wretched lord. Ty may do better, if he has the sense to learn from me and not his father . Lady Genna took a drink and wiped her mouth on her sleeve . Gatehouse Ami is Darry only on her mother’s side .
Jaime recalls little Robert from King’s Landing, still sucking on his mother’s teats at four . "Why does a man with one pot of gold need another? Men are greedy. I do not blame Kevan for wanting the safer seat for his own boy, mind you." Lady Genna waved her cup in dismissal .
The Conqueror himself tread carefully with the Faith, so they would not oppose him . When Aegon died and the lords rose up against his sons, both orders were in the thick of that rebellion . King Maegor finally had to put a bounty on them; he paid a dragon for the head of any unrepentant Warrior’s Son .
“No. Tywin mistrusted laughter. He heard too many people laughing at your grandsire.” “That won’t work.” “I mean to offer him good terms.” “Terms require trust. The Freys murdered guests beneath their roof, and you, well... I mean no offense, my love, but you did kill a certain king you had sworn to protect.” “And I’ll kill the Blackfish if he does not yield.” His tone was harsher than he’d intended, but
Ser Harys chuckled himself into exile, as I recall . Cersei has put some bastard on the council too . She has the Faith arming and the Braavosi calling in loans .
Walder Frey persuaded his lord father to give his hand to Emm . Father was himself a thirdborn son, and younger children crave the approval of their elders . Ellyn Tarbeck laughed and the Red Lion went angry from the hall .
CAT OF THE CANALS She woke before the sun came up, in the little room beneath the eaves . Cat was always the first to awaken. It was warm and snug under the blankets with Talea and Brea . Talea muttered a sleepy complaint and rolled over.
Brusco and his sons were out in the boat on the little canal behind the house . It was Cat’s task to untie them from the piling, toss the rope to Brea, and shove the boat away from the dock with a booted foot . Cat ran and leapt across the widening gap between dock and deck .
The wolf dreams belonged to Arya of House Stark . It made no difference whether she slept beneath the temple or in the little room beneath the eaves with Brusco’s daughters . In that dream she was swift and strong, running down her prey with her pack at her heels .
Cat always stank of brine and fish by the time they pushed off for home again . When her muscles ached from lifting, or her back got sore from the weight of a cask, she told herself that she was getting stronger . Brusco shoved them off again, and his sons poled them back up the Long Canal .
Sometimes it was no more than three new words of the Braavosi tongue . Sometimes she brought back sailor’s tales, of strange and wondrous happenings from the wide wet world beyond the isles . Its very existence had been a secret for a century, the girl had learned . “The Nine Free Cities are the daughters of Valyria that was,” the kindly man taught her .
When the moon was black she was no one, a servant of the Many-Faced God in a robe of black and white . She washed the dead, went through their clothes, and counted out their coins . Cat would always find the kindly man waiting for her when she went creeping back to the temple .
Brusco's daughter Brea meets a boy on the roof when her father is asleep . Cat would need two more. She was not concerned. There were always new things to learn, down by the ships .
Only Braavosi were permitted use of the Purple Harbor, from the Drowned Town and the Sealord’s Palace . It was noisier, as sailors and traders from half a hundred lands crowded its wharves and alleys, mingling with those who served . Cat liked the noise and the strange smells, and seeing what ships had come in on the evening tide .
Cat cried her wares in the trade tongue, the language of the wharves and docks and sailor’s taverns, a coarse jumble of words and phrases from a dozen languages, accompanied by hand signs and gestures, most of them insulting . Any man who bothered her was apt to see the fig, or hear himself described as an ass’s pizzle or a camel’s cunt . Red Roggo showed
Cat bought clams and cockles from her, told her true tales of Braavosi . She showed them all the fig, and told them they were camel cunts . Gyloro Dothare taught her filthy songs, and his brother Gyleno taught her .
Cat had boarded ships from Lys and Oldtown and the Port of Ibben . Some days she rolled her barrow past the towers of the mighty to offer baked clams to guardsmen . When another peddler tried to run her off she turned his cart over and sent his oysters skittering across the cobbles .
Cats liked the smell of Cat. Some days she would have a dozen trailing after her before the sun went down . The biggest toms would seldom win, she noticed; oft as not, the prize went to some smaller, quicker animal, thin and mean and hungry . Cat saw, but five new ones had docked; a small carrack called the Brazen Monkey .
The Little Brazen Monkey was from Gulltown, with a Wes-terosi crew . One asked how a girl from King’s Landing came to be selling mussels on the docks of Braavos . Cat told them there’s eel fights in the Spotted Cellar down by the gates of Drowned Town .
"The Happy Port is where all the porters go," Cat assured the men of the Brazen Monkey . "What about them fancy whores the singers sing about?" asked the youngest monkey, a red-haired boy with freckles .
The courtesans of Braavos were famous across the world . Singers sang of them, goldsmiths and jewelers showered them with gifts . Merchant princes paid royal ransoms to have them on their arms at balls and feasts .
Cat of the Canals never had an aunt. She never did . She sold most of her clams to the porters off-loading the big wine cog from the Arbor . Cat sold the rest to the men repairing a Myrish trading galley .
Tagganaro had been looking for a new partner since the Drunken Daughter put her knife through Little Narbo’s hand . Cat was sad. She liked Little Narbeo, even if he was a thief . The Sealord’s always looking for more oarsmen .
Cat reached Happy Port across the alley from where the Ship was anchored . She asked them how it went with Seven Drunken Oarsmen . Joss the Gloom shook his head . “We will strive to make up in drunkenness what we lack in oarsman,” Cat said .
Dareon wore a plush purple cloak lined with vair, a white-and-lilac tunic, and the parti-colored breeches of a bravo . The only black about him was his boots . Cat had heard him tell Lanna that he’d thrown all the rest in a canal .
Dareon had once wed the Sailor’s Wife, who would only bed with men who married her . The Happy Port sometimes had three or four weddings a night . Elsewise it was Eustace, who had once been a septon at the Sept-Beyond-the-Sea .
Dareon promised to sing at the Inn of the Green Eel this evening, he told her as they strolled along together . They crossed a little bridge, and made their way down a crooked back street as the shadows of the day grew longer .
Fog rose all around as she walked through the streets of Braavos . She untied Cat’s threadbare cloak, pulled Cat's fishy brown tunic over her head . When she emerged, soaped pink with her brown hair plastered to her cheeks, Cat was gone .
Sweetsleep is the gentlest of poisons," the waif told her . Three pinches will give a night of deep and dreamless sleep . The taste is very sweet, so it is best used in cakes and pies and honeyed wines .
“I was born the only child of an ancient House, my noble father’s heir,” the waif replied . “My mother died when I was little, I have no memory of her. When I was six my father wed again.” Then it was her wish that I should die . She should have sought the favor of the Many-Faced God, but she could not bear the sacrifice he would ask of her . It left me as you see me now, but I did not die.
“I think that they’ll come back.” “Do you only think, or do you know?” “I only think,” she had to confess . “Dareon is dead. The black singer who was sleeping at the Happy Port. He was really a deserter from the Night’s Watch. Someone slit his throat and pushed him into a canal, but they kept his boots.” “You lie.” He turned to the waif. “My throat is dry. Do me a kindness and bring a cup of
Arya dreamed she was a wolf again, but it was different from the other dreams . She prowled alone, bounding over rooftops and padding silently beside the banks of a canal . When she woke the next morning, she was blind.
"No. He was a great man. A maester of the Citadel, chained and sworn, and Sworn Brother of the Night’s Watch, ever faithful. When he was born they named him for a hero who had died too young, but his own life was no less heroic. At the Wall, a dozen lords commander came and went during his years of service . He counseled kings as well. He could have been a king himself, but when
The Cinnamon Wind was adrift upon a deep blue sea far beyond the sight of land . Black Sam shouted good words, and a cask of spiced rum was rolled up onto the afterdeck and breached . The crew had known him only a short while, but Summer Islanders celebrated their dead .
Dragons are neither male nor female, Barth saw the truth of that, but now one and now the other, as changeable as flame. The language misled us all for a thousand years. Daenerys is the one, born amidst salt and smoke. The dragons prove it.”
Sam parted with them glumly when Xhondo asked him what was wrong . The captain wanted Aemon’s chain as well, but there Sam had refused . It was a great shame for any maester to surrender his chain, he had explained .
Oldtown archmaesters of the Citadel must have read like the ravings of an old man whose wits had fled. You must convince them, where I could not. Tell them, Sam... tell them how it is upon the Wall... the wights and the white walkers, the creeping cold... I will,” Sam promised .
Lady Melisandre has misread the signs . "It must be you. Tell them. The prophecy... my brother’s dream... Tell them." "The sword is wrong, she has to know that... light without heat... an empty glamor" "I am dying, Sam," Tears ran from his blind white eyes .
Maester Aemon forgot Sam’s name oft as not . Some days he took him for one of his dead brothers . He was too frail for such a long voyage, Sam told Gilly on the forecastle .
Maester Aemon's corpse had been stuffed inside a cask of blackbelly rum to preserve it until the Cinnamon Wind reached Oldtown . Maestester is not a name. You could call him aemon, though. When he’s old enough, not now. We could.” She said .
Kojja Mo was the captain’s daughter, taller than Sam and slender as a spear . She captained the ship’s red archers too, and pulled a double-curved goldenheart bow that could send a shaft four hundred yards . When the pirates attacked them in the Stepstones, Koja’s arrows had slain a dozen of them while Sam’s own shafts were falling in the water .
The sun was low in the west, he saw, swollen to thrice its proper size . They drank a cup to Kojja Mo, one to Dalla’s boy, and one to Gilly’s babe back on the Wall . Sam said that the drink was making the ship spin round .
I said the words, but her hands were tugging at his blacks, pulling at the laces of his breeches . He broke off the kiss long enough to say, “We can’t,” but Gilly said, “we can” and covered his mouth with her own again . Sam thought, but one of her nipples found its way between his lips .
Sam had read that somewhere, a long time ago . He wondered if Kojja Mo had told her what to do. He breathed the fragrance of her hair and stared at the lantern swinging overhead . But Gilly can find herself a better man, one who is not some big fat coward .
Quhuru Mo had agreed that he would take them, provided that they worked their way . When Sam had protested that Maester Aemon was too weak, the boy a babe in arms, and Gilly terrified of the sea, Xhondo only laughed, "Black Sam is big fat man. Black Sam will work for four" Sam scrubbed decks and rubbed them smooth with stones, he coiled rope and hunted rats . Gilly was better in the rigg
"Fuck" had been the first word of the Common Tongue that Xhondo had learned . Aboard the Cinnamon Wind Gilly could have run him down in hardly any time at all . With a good brisk wind behind them, it could outrun any galley, though she was helpless .
All you Westerosi make a shame of loving. There is no shame in loving. If your septons say there is, your seven gods must be demons. In the isles we know better. Our gods gave us legs to run with, noses to smell with, hands to touch and feel. What mad cruel god would give a man eyes and tell him he must forever keep them shut, and never look at all the beauty in the world?
CERSEI The day had been cold and grey and wet . It had poured all morning, and even when the rain stopped the clouds refused to part . Such wretched weather was enough to discourage even the little queen . She spent all day in the Maidenvault with her hens, listening to the Blue Bard sing .
The queen drew Waters down into the window seat beside her . “Some will say so, Your Grace.” “Some?” She gave him a quizzical look. “I never saw a braver knight,” Waters said .
Aurane did not resemble Prince Rhaegar as much as she had thought . He has the hair, but so do half the whores in Lys, if the tales are true .
“No one man has that honor,” said Cersei . “Ser Loras took a quarrel through the thigh and another through the shoulder, but he fought on gallantly, though the blood was streaming from him. Later he suffered a mace blow that broke some ribs .
Lady Merryweather did not appear that night, and Cersei found herself too restless to sleep . Margaery would soon be weeping the bitter tears she should have wept for Joffrey . Mace Tyrell might weep as well, but she had given him no cause to break with her .
Tyrion had a grotesquely large head, for one so small and stunted . It was cedar, inlaid with ivory in a pattern of vines and flowers . "Your Grace," the Tyroshi murmured, bowing low, but the queen’s only interest lay in what might be within .
“I shall raise you to lordship and grant you rich lands and keeps.” Titles were cheaper than dirt, and the riverlands were full of ruined castles . The Tyroshi threw open the box with a flourish, and stepped back smiling . There was a sour taste in her mouth. The gods are never that good .
Ser Meryn Trant took the Tyroshi by the arm and hauled him off, still protesting . Cersei said that the Imp was hiding in an Oldtown brothel . The third insisted Tyrion had become a hermit in the riverlands .
“If you can bear the tedium,” said Cersei . “I say, run off and play and leave the King’s Hand to hear these tiresome petitions . We could dress as serving girls and spend the day amongst the smallfolk .
Lord Hallyne of the Guild of Alchemists asked that his pyromancers be allowed to hatch any dragon’s eggs that might turn up upon Dragonstone . The queen refrained from saying that the plan was mad . Ever since the last Targaryen dragon had died, all such attempts had ended in death, disaster, or disgrace .
Septon Raynard assumed a regretful tone . The pious sentiment would have been more convincing if the queen hadn't known that he had special friends in every brothel on the Street of Silk .
The queen had expected to hear from Lord Gyles as well, but instead Grand Maester Pycelle appeared, grey-faced and apologetic, to tell her that Rosby was too weak to leave his bed . If Rosby dies, Mace Tyrell and the little queen will try and force Garth the Gross on me again .
Ser Loras said he had wept. He is young. By the time he is Joff’s age he will not recall . Margaery said—”—a deal too much,” Cersei snapped . “You leave her tongue alone. Don’t you touch her. I’m the king, not you.” She stared at him, incredulous .
Ser Boros Blount dragged him to his bedchamber and brought up Pate . He is to continue until the boy is bleeding from both cheeks . If His Grace refuses, summon Qyburn and tell him to remove Pate’s tongue . The queen did not know why that occurred to her .
Fat Jeyne Farman hung back as she always did, so she could not turn away . Melara Hetherspoon was bolder, older, and prettier, in a freckly sort of way . In life the girls had been breathless and giddy, whispering to each other as they went, as excited as they were afraid .
Jeyne Farman gave a frightened squeak and fled the tent, plunging headlong back into the night . She had married one of her lord brother’s bannermen and whelped a dozen children . "Begone," croaked Maggy, a third time .
A lioness does not fear a frog, no matter how old and ugly she might be . She should have gone, she should have listened, she must have run away . When Cersei offered her hand, she sucked away blood with gums as soft as a newborn babe’s .
“Will the king and I have children?” she asked . “Oh, aye. Six-and-ten for him, and three for you.” That made no sense to Cersei . The old woman was not done with her, however .
The crone had screamed at them in some queer foreign tongue, and cursed them as they fled her tent . In the dream her face dissolved, melting away into ribbons of grey mist until all that remained were two squinting yellow eyes, the eyes of death . The hands emerged from the mists of her dream and coiled around her neck .
Grand Maester Pycelle had been richly clad, dignified, exquisitely courteous . Tyrion had shaved his beard off, though, and what had grown back was pitiful, a few patchy tufts of thin, brittle hair that did little to hide the loose pink flesh beneath his chin . The black cells robbed him of whatever strength he had .
“What did I just say? Have your ears grown as feeble as your cock? Can you make me such a potion?” “Good. You may go.” “One more thing. What does the Citadel teach concerning prophecy? Can our morrows be foretold?” One wrinkled hand groped blindly at his chest . “See that you close mine as you leave.” The next morning she broke her fast with Tommen .
Lady Falyse is no longer capable of ruling Stokeworth . It is better if she dies, she told herself. Oaf that he was, the fool seemed fond of him .
Melara had begged her never to speak of the things they heard that night in the maegi’s tent . If we never talk about it we’ll soon forget, and then it will be just a bad dream we had . The two of them had been so young, that had sounded almost wise .
A sudden sickness would be best, but the gods were seldom so obliging . When an old man died in his sleep no one thought twice of it, but a girl of six-and-ten found dead in bed was certain to raise awkward questions . Even with Ser Loras dying, there were swords about her night and day .
BRIENNE They came upon the first corpse a mile from the crossroads . He swung beneath the limb of a dead tree whose blackened trunk still bore the scars of the lightning that had killed it . Only bones and rags remained below his knees... along with one well-chewed shoe .
Ser Hyle dismounted, stroded after the dog, and came up with a half helm . The dead man’s skull was still inside it, along with some worms and beetles . “Good steel,” he pronounced, “and not too badly dinted, though the lion’s lost his head.” “I don’t want to,” said Brienne .
Swollen in death, with faces gnawed and rotten, they all looked the same . It was Hyle Hunt who finally put words to what all of them had realized . The noose was the preferred method of execution for Beric Dondarrion and his band of outlaws .
Septon Meribald asked the name of the inn where they hoped to spend the night . "The Old Inn, some call it. There has been an inn there for many hundreds of years," Podrick said . The inn was raised during the reign of the first Jaehaerys, the king .
Seventy years ago, it was when old Masha Heddle’s grandfather kept the place . The lions hanged her. After they moved on, I heard that one of her nephews tried opening the inn again, but the wars had made the roads too dangerous for common folk to travel .
"I never dreamed that keeping an inn could be so deadly dangerous," said Septon Meribald . "If the gods are good, that smoke rising beyond the hanged men will be from its chimneys," Ser Hyle said .
At Saltpans, they had found only death and desolation . By the time they were ferried over from Quiet Isle, the survivors had fled and the dead had been given to the ground . The corpse of the town itself remained, ashen and unburied .
Four girls stood on the inn’s porch, watching him . The youngest was no more than two, and naked. The oldest stood with her arms protectively about the little one . “I’m Willow. Will you be wanting beds?” Ser Hyle Hunt dismounted .
Willow glanced toward the donkey, and the casks and bundles on his back . “We don’t have so many guests. Not like before the war.” “Worse?” Brienne asked. “Thieves,” said a boy’s voice from the stables .
Renly had been lean and lithe, whereas this boy had the heavy shoulders and muscular right arm so often seen on smiths . He wore a long leather apron, but under it his chest was bare . When Masha Heddle owned this inn she always had a honey cake for me .
Lady Brienne is a warrior maid upon a quest . She is in need of a dry bed and a warm fire . "No," said the boy smith .
Ser Hyle's room had a hearth as well as a chamber pot . "This is not the Quiet Isle," Podrick asked as she was opening the shutters .
I could slink back to King’s Landing, confess my failure to Ser Jaime, give him back his sword, and find a ship to carry me home to Tarth, as the Elder Brother urged. The thought was a bitter one, yet there was part of her that yearned for Evenfall and her father, and another part that wondered if Jaime would comfort her should she weep upon his shoulder.
Willow had four greasy tallow candles lit and told the girls to keep the hearthfire burning high and hot . The boys helped Podrick Payne unpack the donkey and carried in the salt cod, mutton, vegetables, nuts, and wheels of cheese .
Ser Hyle grinned. “You need a man for that, I hear. Why not me?” “What I want to win is you, Lord Selwyn’s only living child. I’ve known men to wed lackwits and suckling babes for prizes a tenth the size of Tarth. Some would say that is my only virtue. Marriage would serve the both of us. Lands for me, and a castle full of these for you.” He waved his hand at the
Septon Meribald asked if he might lead the children in a grace . Willow snatched up the crawler before she reached the porridge . So they bowed their heads together and thanked the Father and the Mother for their bounty .
Gendry was at his forge, bare-chested beneath his leather apron . He was beating on a sword as if he wished it were a foe, his sweat-soaked hair falling across his brow . The way he spoke made her certain of it. He plunged the sword into a tub of rainwater .
“You have black hair and blue eyes, and you were born in the shadow of the Red Keep.” “What’s wrong with my face? It’s not as ugly as yours.” “In King’s Landing you must have seen King Robert.” He shrugged. “Sometimes. At tourneys, from afar. Once at Baelor’s Sept. The gold cloaks shoved us aside so he could pass. A big fat sot, he was, but a better 
Brienne sucked in her breath and drew Oathkeeper . Too many, she thought, with a start of fear, they are too many . Gendry saw it too, but her mouth was dry as dust .
a clap of thunder rolled across the yard, drowning out her words . The fury in the man’s voice drove Willow back a step, trembling . She had no chance against seven, she knew. No chance, and no choice.
Steel crashed against steel as her blade bit through his rags and opened a gash in his chainmail . He twisted aside, slashing at his chest again as she retreated . His axe whirled in murderous arcs, a brutal black shadow that turned silver every time lightning flashed .
Old Ser Goodwin was long in his grave, yet she could hear him whispering in her ear . Let them spend their strength in furious attacks, while you conserve your own . He wrenched his axe up once more, cursing, and lurched after her .
He fell on her like an avalanche of wet wool and milk-white flesh, lifting her off her feet and slamming her down into the ground . She landed in a puddle with a splash that sent water up her nose and into her eyes . “No,” was all that she had time to say before he fell on top of her . One of his hands was in her hair, pulling her head back, and the other groped for her throat .
Biter locked both his hands about her neck and began to slam her head against the ground . With him on top of her, she could not raise the blade to stab, so she drew it hard across his belly . She heard bones crack, and the pain blinded her for an instant . He seized her head again and resumed trying to tear it off her shoulders .
Biter threw back his head and opened his mouth again, howling, and stuck his tongue out at her . It was sharply pointed, dripping blood, longer than any tongue should be . The brooch fastened Ser Brynden Tully’s cloak was a black fish, wrought in jet and gold .
"I assume you have returned to fulfill the oaths you swore my niece," Ser Brynden said . "As I recall, you promised Catelyn her daughters in return for your freedom" "You have put fresh rushes on the floor," I don’t doubt .
Ryman Frey is a bloody fool . "You hold Lady Sybelle Westerling and three of her children. I’ll return your nephew in exchange for them." "An old woman and three children for your liege lord. That’s a better bargain than you could have imagined for," Ser Brynden smiled .
I wonder, how far will they get, before ‘outlaws’ set upon them? Will I be paraded through King’s Landing to die like Eddard Stark? The Blackfish narrowed his eyes . Catelyn never trusted the boy, as I recall, no more than she ever trusted Theon Greyjoy. It would seem she was right about them both.
“You must be blind as well as maimed, ser.” He leaned forward . “I’ve seen him. He looks lonely. Harrenhal has fallen. Seagard and Maidenpool. The Brackens have bent the knee, and they’ve got Tytos Blackwood penned up in Raventree.
Ser Brynden asked the Blackfish if he didn't slay him . “A siege is deadly dull. I wanted to see this stump of yours and hear whatever excuses you cared to offer up for your latest enormities. You always disappoint, Kingslayer.” The portcullis descended with a rush .
Jaime resolved to be the first man on the battlements . With this golden hand of mine, most like the first to fall . "How did you fare, my lord?" asked his cousin Ser Daven .
Lord Piper and both Lords Vance came to speak for the repentant lords of the Trident . The west was represented by Ser Daven, Strongboar, Addam Marbrand, and Forley Prester . Lady Genna claimed her stool with a look that dared any man there to question her presence .
"Brynden Blackfish is not moved so easily," said Lord Emmon Frey . "I will lead the assault," said Addam Marbrand. "Why don’t you wave it at the Blackfish for a change?"
"The Blackfish is the obstacle," said Edwyn Frey . He proposes that we move our siege towers close, fill them full of bowmen, and feign an attack upon the gates . That will bring Ser Brynden to the battlements, crest and all .
Edwyn Frey and Walder Rivers snarled as Piper came lurching to his feet . He was a short, rotund, bowlegged man with a bush of wild red hair . "I don’t imply, Frey. I say what I mean straight out, like an honest man," Piper said .
Lord Piper was not so easy to cow. He muttered a curse and strode from the tent . “Send Ser Ilyn,” urged Edywn Frey. “We only need his head.” Jaime turned to Jaime.
Ser Lyle, Ser Ilyn. Attend me, if you would. It’s time I paid a visit to those gallows . The Tumblestone was deeper and swifter than the Red Fork .
Ser Ryman’s great rectangular pavilion was the largest in the camp . The Freys had fought beneath the direwolf banners of Robb Stark . There’s a cold suspicious look if ever I saw one .
Ser Ryman came stomping up the gallows steps in company with a straw-haired slattern as drunk as he was . She sat askew, graven with runes and ringed with small black swords . Edmure wore a silken tunic striped in Tully red and blue .
Ser Ryman Frey was a thickset man with a broad face, small eyes, and a soft fleshy set of chins . He told him Edmure would die unless the castle yielded . "Only a fool makes threats he’s not prepared to carry out," the man reddened .
Ryman Frey went to his knees. “I have done nothing...” Jaime watched the man turn white. “You are dismissed, ser.” “You heard me. Go away.” “To hell or home, as you prefer. See that you are not in camp when the sun comes up.” Jaime waved his golden hand . “Ser Lyle, bring him.” A foot of hemp still dangled from the noose about his neck .
No one said a word as they walked back to the ferry . Edmure Tully grabbed Jaime by the arm . “I am told your wife is pretty. She’d have to be, for you to bed her while your sister and your king were being murdered.” “I never knew.” “She is carrying my child.” No, Jaime thought, that’s your rampant manhood .
Your uncle serves at your pleasure. The fate of Riverrun is in your hands," Edmure stared. "Yield the castle and no one dies. Your smallfolk may go in peace or stay to serve Lord Emmon. You as well, if the Wall appeals to you. Or you may go to Casterly Rock as my captive and enjoy all the comforts and courtesy that befits a hostage of your rank. If Roslin gives you a daughter, I’ll see
Pia was standing by the flap of the tent with her arms full of clothes . His squires were listening as well, and the singer . Let them hear, Jaime thought. Let the world hear. It makes no matter .
CERSEI Grand Maester Pycelle had been old for as long as she had known him . It took him an eternity to bend his creaky knee before her, and once he had he could not rise again until Ser Osmund jerked him to his feet . "Your Grace must know, I did all that could be done for the poor man." "You lost him to a boar," said Jaime .
“Your Grace, I swear to you, Lord Gyles perished from his cough.” His mouth was quivering . “My loyalty has always been to the crown, to the realm... t-to House Lannister.” The old fool was amused by his presumption.
Pycelle’s fear was palpable. He is ripe enough to squeeze the fruit and taste the juice . “If you are as leal as you claim, why are you lying to me? Do not trouble to deny it. You began to dance attendance on Maid Margaery before Ser Loras went to Dragonstone, so spare me further fables about how you want only to console our good-daughter in her grief .
Pycelle struggled to rise, but took so long about it that she had to tell Osmund Kettleblack to give him another yank . “No doubt our Father Above will judge him justly. He left no children?” “No children of his body, but there is a ward...” “...not of his blood.” Cersei dismissed that annoyance with a flick of her hand . Rosby’s lands and castle could be bestowed upon one of her own as a
Lady Olenna had condemned her precious rose to a headsman’s sword . She still had need of Mace Tyrell, if not his daughter . But how could she rid herself of the daughter without losing the father?
"Margaery is too shrewd to be caught so easily," said Lady Merryweather . "When she is not hawking or riding she is playing come-into-my-castle with little Alysanne Bulwer .
Lady Taena savored every bite . Lord Orton Merryweather drank heavily and kept stealing glances at the singer . Ser Harys is a hostage, and feeble even at that .
Tywin Lannister had been an old done man when Aerys raised him, amiable if ineffectual . It was a pity Taena could not serve as Hand . She was thrice the man her husband was, and far more amusing .
The Blue Bard went white. “No.” Blood dripped from his lip where the lute had torn it . “Mother have mercy, no.” “I am not your mother,” Cersei told him .
Qyburn wore roughspun wool and a blacksmith’s leather apron . His voice was kind, solicitous . “All we want from you is the truth.” “I’ve told you the truth,” the singer sobbed .
Lord Qyburn ran a hand up the Blue Bard’s chest . He took one between his thumb and forefinger, and twisted. “Some men enjoy that. Their nipples are as sensitive as a woman’s.” The razor flashed, the singer shrieked. Part of her wanted to close her eyes, to make it stop, but she was the queen and this was treason .
Ser Tallad the Tall, Lambert Turnberry, Jalabhar Xho, the Redwyne twins, Osney Kettleblack, Hugh Clifton, and the Knight of Flowers displeased her . Without the Arbor and its fleet, the realm could never hope to rid itself of this Euron Crow’s Eye and his accursed ironmen .
Ser Tallad was a hedge knight, Jalabhar Xho was an exile and a beggar, Clifton was the only one of the little queen’s guardsman. And Osney is the plum that makes the pudding . "I know you feel better for having told the truth. You will want to remember that when Margaery comes to trial. If you were to start lying again... You will be allowed to take the black. You have my word on that.” Cersei
Lady Merryweather woke Dorcas and Jocelyn and sent them for hot water . She helped the queen disrobe, undoing her laces with deft fingers and easing the gown off her shoulders . The two of them shared the bath together, with Cersei lying back in Taena’s arms .
"Ser Osney shall confess as well. The others must be made to understand that only through confession can they earn the king’s forgiveness, and the Wall," Jalabhar Xho would find the truth attractive . Dawn was breaking over King’s Landing when they climbed from the tub . It proved a waste of breath; as ever, the gods were deaf .
Melara Hetherspoon had asked Septa Saranella about the word, after Melara drowned . Taena took her hand and stroked it . "This was a hateful woman, old and sick and ugly. You were young and beautiful, full of life and pride," Cersei said .
"Ser Pounce must learn to defend his rights," the queen said . "When Ser Loras comes back I’m going to learn to fight with lance and sword and morningstar, the same way he does." "Margaery says he will. We pray for him. We ask for the Mother’s mercy, and for the Warrior to give him strength."
Ser Osney Kettleblack came in sweaty from the yard and swaggering . She traced his scars lightly with the tips of her fingers . “First you must confess your treason. A man’s sins can poison his soul if left to fester. It is past time that you rid yourself of your shame,” Cersei said .
Ser Osney's hand with her own, kissing his fingers . He thrust his fingers inside the bodice of her gown and yanked . The silk parted with a ripping sound so loud that Cersei was afraid half of Red Keep must have heard it .
Areo Hotah had escaped Darkstar, the most dangerous of all her little group of plotters . Darkstar had outraced all his pursuers and vanished into the deep desert, with blood upon his blade . "What you meant does not matter, little princess," Areo hotah said .
Seneschal Ricasso and Ser Manfrey Martell were taken to the Spear Tower . The castellan had refused to say what would be done with them . "The prince’s displeasure, you mean. Will my friends be confined here as well?"
Arianne found a basin and a flagon of cool water and washed her hands and face, but no amount of scrubbing could cleanse her of her grief . She remembered how Hotah’s heavy axe had cleaved through his flesh and bone, the way his head had gone spinning through the air . In one corner stood an ornate table with pieces carved of ivory and onyx .
Arys Oakheart had died because of that, slain by the traitor’s whisper as much as by the captain’s axe . The blood that had streamed down Myrcella’s face, that was the cruelest cut of all . She stripped out of the travel-stained garb she had slept in and donned the most revealing garments she could find .
Arys, my sweet, my white knight, why did you do it? You gallant fool, I never meant for you to die, or for Myrcella... oh, gods be good, that little girl... Finally, she crawled back onto the featherbed . Garin, Drey, and Spotted Sylva were friends of her girlhood, as dear to her as her cousin Tyene . It made no sense for Dayne to be the traitor .
Had he loved Myrcella more than her and betrayed his new princess to atone for his betrayal of the old? Was he so ashamed of what he’d done that he threw his life away at the Greenblood rather than live to face dishonor? When her father came to see her, she would learn which one . The princess was left alone to pace, and weep, and nurse her wounds .
The sisters Morra and Mellei brought her meals, changed her bed, and emptied the chamber pot beneath her privy . When she needed more wine, Timoth would fetch it . If she desired some favorite food, figs or olives or peppers stuffed with cheese, she need only tell Belandra .
Arianne loved all her bastard cousins, from prickly, hot-tempered Obara to little Loreza . Tyene had always been the one she loved the most, though; the sweet sister that she never had .
The more she thought about her cousins, the more the princess missed them . When no one answered, she leaned out a window and peered down . “Tyene, are you there? Obara, Nym? Can you hear me? Ellaria? Anyone? TYENE?” The princess spent half the night hanging out the window .
Cedra had boasted of bedding her once, the princess recalled . The next time she bathed, she began to talk of everything and nothing . She spoke about the heat of the day, and how slow and stiff Belandra was becoming .
"I can do little and less so long as I am locked up here," Cedra whispered, blushing . "You are the only one who can save Garin," said the princess . The only one of her conspirators to escape her father’s net was Darkstar .
The most powerful of the Dornish lords was Anders Yronwood, the Bloodroyal, Lord of Yoronwood and Warden of the Stone Way . No. Drey’s brother Ser Deziel Dalt had once aspired to marry her, but he was much too dutiful to go against his prince .
Unless Prince Doran had attainted her, she remained the lawful heir to Sunspear . She dare not ask for parchment for fear of rousing suspicions of her captors . The girl did not return upon the morrow, however.
Arianne Martell had grown up expecting that one day she would wed some great lord of her father’s choosing . The freedom that Prince Oberyn allowed his bastard daughters had never been shared by Prince Doran’s lawful heir .
Elden Estermont was called the Greybeard, but by the time she’d met him his beard had gone snow white . At the welcoming feast, Grandison had gone to sleep between the fish course and the meat . He was a sleeping lion, but Arianne refrained . She would never marry him, however .
Arianne slept and woke and slept again, and still felt too weary to rise . She prayed to the Mother for mercy and to the Warrior for courage, then slept some more . Then came a day when a rough hand woke her, shaking her by the shoulder .
"He will tell you. First you must wash, and eat." She must look a wretched creature . The captain waited without while the princess bathed and brushed her hair . She drank a little wine to settle her stomach.
Areo Hotah sounded so sad, so exhausted, so weak . “My brother loved the fight for its own sake, but I only play such games as I can win. Cyvasse is not for me.” He studied her face for a long moment before he said, “Why? Tell me that, Arianne.” “For the honor of our House.” His voice made her angry .
Darkstar is the most dangerous man in Dorne. You and he have done us all great harm,” Arianne said . She touched one of the cyvasse pieces, the heavy horse . “You would have crowned Myrcella queen, to raise a rebellion against her brother.” “Only if we lost.”
Dorne cannot hope to win a war against the Iron Throne, not alone . Forgive me, part of her wanted to say, but his words had cut her too deeply . "You make it difficult for a man to swallow his anger," she said .
Ser Andrey has been sent to Norvos to serve your lady mother for three years . From his kin amongst the orphans, I took coin and hostages . Garin will spend his next two years in Tyrosh .
Ser Balon Swann is bringing me the Mountain’s head . At present he is at the Tor, where Lady Jordayne has arranged games in his honor . When he arrives at Sunspear he will expect to see Princess Myrcella... and Ser Arys, his Sworn Brother .
A spasm of anger rippled across Arianne’s father’s face . “I warn you, Arianne, I am out of patience,” Arianne realized . The princess refused to be cowed . "I want my cousins freed. I want my uncle avenged."
“You will have Dorne after I am dead,” “That is not true.” “No? Shall we ask my brother?” “Trystane?” “Quentyn?” “He is with Lord Yronwood’s host in the Boneway.” “You do lie well, Father, I will grant you that. You did not so much as blink. You have my word, your brother has not gone to Lys.” “I swear it by sun and spear and Seven.” Arianne could not be foole
“I never hated you,” Prince Doran’s voice was parchment-thin . “Do you deny you wrote those words?” “No. That was when Quentyn first went to Yronwood. I did intend for him to follow me, yes. I had other plans for you.” “Oh, yes,” she said scornfully .
"Who is it? Who have I been betrothed to, all these years?" "It makes no matter. He is dead." "The old ones are so frail. Was it a broken hip, a chill, the gout?" "Dorne will be yours. You have my word on that, if my word still has any meaning for you." "Do you truly believe I would harm my brother’s children?" her father grimaced .
Quentyn's story grows ever stranger . Prince Doran pressed the onyx dragon into her palm with his swollen, gouty fingers . ALAYNE She turned the iron ring and pushed the door open, just a crack .
Alayne shut the door behind her. It was solid oak, four inches thick; Maddy and Gretchel could listen all they wished, but they would hear nothing . “I heard my Sweetrobin was ailing,” the boy asked. “No,” she lied. “If m’lady can talk him out of bed nice,” the knight said .
The Winged Knight was Ser Artys Arryn . There were a hundred tales of his adventures . The Giant’s Lance was wrapped in an icy mantle buried in waist-deep snow .
Mya Stone is waiting down at Sky, and she’ll be hurt if you go to sleep on her. You know how much she loves you. I don’t love her. She’s just the mule girl.” Alayne promised, “I’ll speak to him” .
The Eyrie might be impregnable, but it would soon be inaccessible as well . Most of the castle’s servants and soldiers had already made the descent . “I hate those smelly mules. One tried to bite me once! You tell that Mya that I’m staying here.” He sounded as if he were about to cry .
Lord Robert had never learned to ride properly, she knew . He was brought to the Vale at six, riding with his head cradled between his mother’s milky breasts . There was no telling how long the weather would hold . “I could do it,” Lord Robert said, “but I don’t choose to.” He swiped at his runny nose with his back of his hand .
Lady Lysa had brushed it herself every night, and cut it when it wanted cutting . Petyr had commanded that his hair be allowed to grow . She took him firmly by the hand, and drew him out of bed . Everything Robert Arryn did was clumsy.
Maester Colemon had washed the night soil from his hair and changed his robe . Gyles Grafton made a face. “I’m no scrubwoman.” “Do as Lady Alayne commands, or Lothor Brune will hear of it,” said Colemon . “This descent... my lady, it might be safest if I mixed his lordship some milk of the poppy.”
Petyr Baelish was clear across the Vale, though, attending Lord Lyonel Corbray at his wedding . The bride’s dower was said to be staggering; it had to be, since she was of common birth . Corbrai’s vassals would be there, with the Lords Waxley, Grafton, Lynderly, some petty lords and landed knights... and Lord Belmore, who had lately reconciled with her father 
“I must speak to the Lord Protector. This feast... is that wise, I wonder, after the strain of the descent?” Alayne assured him . “Lord Nestor mislikes strangers, you know that, and there will be drinking, noise... music. Music frightens him,” Alayne corrected, “the high harp especially. It’s singing he can’t abide” .
The Eyrie was built of fine white stone, and winter’s mantle made it whiter still . Alayne thought, so impregnable. She could not love this place, no matter how she tried . Even before guards and serving men had made their descent, the castle had seemed as empty as a tomb .
Ser Lothor Brune was in the winch room helping the gaoler Mord and two serving men wrestle chests of clothes and bales of cloth into six huge oaken buckets . The great chain winches were the easiest way to reach the waycastle Sky, six hundred feet below them; elsewise you had to descend the natural stone chimney from the undercellar . “She’ll wait,” Alayne said .
Brune would be a good match for a bastard girl like Mya Stone, she thought . Poor oxen, thought Alayne. Mord would cut their throats and butcher them before he left, and leave them for the falcons . A good supply of frozen meat foretold a summer of plenty, old Gretchel claimed .
Myranda Royce was the Lord Nestor’s daughter . She had been away, but Alayne had heard much of her since from the Eyrie’s soldiers . It was a much livelier court when she was home, according to rumor . "You must excuse me, ser. I need to finish packing," she said .
Alayne wore a lambswool overtunic and a hooded fur cloak, fastening it with an enameled mockingbird that had been a gift from Petyr . When she’d donned it all, she felt as fat and furry as a bear cub . She found Mya Stone waiting impatiently with Lothor Brune and Mord .
Alayne was spared by the arrival of Robert Arryn . The little lord wore sky-blue velvet, a chain of gold and sapphires, and a white bearskin cloak . Gretchel and Maddy were not far behind .
A honeycomb made of ice, Alayne thought, a castle made of snow . The bucket swayed sideways, spinning in the air, then bumped hard against the rock face behind them . “My lord is brave,” Alayne said, when she felt him shaking .
Lord Nestor’s daughter proved to be a short, fleshy woman, of age with Mya Stone . Myranda was soft-bodied and sweet-smelling, broad of hip, thick of waist, and extremely buxom . When Robert climbed gingerly from the bucket, she knelt in a patch of snow to kiss his hand and cheeks .
Alayne Stone was older than Sansa Stark . The bastard girl thumped down softly on a mound of frozen snow .
Mya Stone led them out, with Lord Robert just behind her, swaddled in his bearskin cloak . Alayne and Myranda Royce followed, then Gretchel and Maddy . Terrance Lynderly and Gyles Grafton led a second mule laden with herbs and potions .
Sansa Stark went up the mountain, but Alayne Stone is coming down . Mya had warned her to keep her eyes on the path ahead, she said . "Look up, not down," Mya said, but that was not possible on the descent . The Lords Declarant were down from six to three .
The Night’s Watch has a boy commander, some bastard son of Eddard Stark’s . “Jon Snow?” she blurted out, surprised, surprised. “Snow? Yes, it would be Snow, I suppose.” She had not thought of Jon in ages . Alayne Stone had no brothers, baseborn or otherwise.
Lady Myranda snorted. “I pray he gets the pox. He has a bastard daughter by some common girl, you know. I do not know whether it was me she found unsuitable, or just my dowry.” “You did?” Alayne said, shocked. “Oh, yes. He died on top of me. In me, if truth be told. You do know what goes on in a marriage bed, I hope?” She thought of Tyrion, and of the
Maesters say large breasts produce no more milk than small ones, but I do not believe it . Mychel was the best young swordsman in the Vale, and gallant... or so poor Mya thought, till he wed one of Bronze Yohn’s daughters .
Alayne had not had a friend to gossip with since poor Jeyne Poole . “Does Ser Lothor likes her as she is, in mail and leather?” Alayne asked the older girl .
Myranda was forced to drop back. Alayne gave the mule his head . The steps were worn smooth by the iron-shod hooves of all the mules who’d passed this way . It is water now, but come dark, all of it will turn to ice .
Lord Robert was staring at the saddle with his reddened eyes . “I shan’t be long, my lord,” Mya promised, but Alayne doubted that the boy could even hear her . When the bastard girl led her mule out from beneath the shelter, the wind caught her in its teeth .
Mya Stone was laughing and lifting Robert for a hug . “He can hurt you, flailing. You wouldn’t think so, but he can.” They found a place for him, a cleft in the rock to keep him out of the cold wind .
Lady Myranda suggested that maybe they might turn back, spend the night at Stone, and resume their descent when the sun came up . Mya’s mules knew every root and rock on the way down, it seemed . Half the night was gone before they sighted the lights of the Gates of the Moon through the falling snow .
Lady Myranda was drowsing too, and Alayne was dreaming of her bed . It will be a featherbed, she told herself, soft and warm and deep, piled high with furs . When I wake there will be dogs barking, women gossiping beside the well, swords ringing in the yard .
“I would do the same if she were my daughter,” said Petyr . “Their gallantry has yet to be demonstrated, but we may hope. Allow me to present Ser Byron, Ser Morgarth, and Ser Shadrich. “Sers, the Lady Alayne, my natural and very clever daughter... with whom I must needs confer.
Petyr Baelish took her by the hand and drew her down onto his lap . She had promised Sweetrobin lemon cake, and for lemon cake you needed lemons . “I do not... I cannot marry. Father, I...” Alayne looked to the door, to make sure it was closed .
Lady Waynwood will not make him marry against his will, she was quite firm on that . Lady Anya would ever sell a son for gold . You are promised to Harrold Hardyng, sweetling, provided you can win his boyish heart... which should not be hard, for you .
Ser Ronnel Arryn wed a Belmore girl, but only rang her once or twice before dying of a bad belly . Elbert was being born in one bed even as poorrronnel was dying in another down the hall . "You will. Listen," Petyr said .
Jon Arryn married thrice, but his first two wives gave him no children . She gave him nine children, eight girls and one precious little boy, another Jasper . He got himself kicked in the head by a horse when he was three years old . There are several branches scattered across the Vale .
Ser Elys cast her out, and she joined the silent sisters after her bastard died in infancy . The third wed the Lord of the Paps, but proved barren . When Robert dies, Harry the Heir becomes Lord Harrold and Defender of the Vale .
Brienne had a horse beneath her, though she could not remember mounting . She lay facedown across his hindquarters, like a sack of oats . Her face felt swollen, her cheek was sticky with blood .
Brienne wailed in horror at the sight of them, and Biter grabbed her arm and yanked her close and tore a chunk from her face . She cried out for a maester, but the pain crackled up her arm like lightning .
Lord Renly, Dick Crabb, and Vargo Hoat were riding through a gloomy wood . Blood ran from Renly’s throat. The Goat’s torn ear oozed pus . “Where are you taking me?” None of them would answer. How can they answer? All of them are dead. Did that mean that she was dead as well?
The girl was thin to the point of looking starved . She wore her brown hair in a braid, and her eyes were older than her years . "You’re the sister. The innkeep.” “I might be.” The girl squinted.
Renly stood behind the girl, pushing his black hair out of his eyes . “M’lady means for you to answer for your crimes.” “Lady Stoneheart.” “Some call her that. Some call her other things. The Silent Sister. Mother Merciless. The Hangwoman.” Brienne fought to rise, and managed to get one knee under her before the world began to spin.
Clarence Crabb pawed the ground in fury, tearing deep furrows in the earth . When Brienne went to draw her sword, she found her scabbard empty . “My sword. Please, I have to find my sword.” “The wench wants her sword back,” a voice declared .
“No, you’re dead, I killed you.” The Hound laughed . “You got that backwards. It’ll be me killing you,” Brienne moaned . The word sent a jolt of fear through her. She looked at the girl, Jeyne .
She thought of Jaime, of Sansa, of her father back on Tarth, and was glad for the hood . From time to time she heard the outlaws talking, but she couldn't make out their words . This time she gave herself up to weariness and the slow, steady motion of her horse .
She spat her tongue off as she waited, and saw the disgust on his face . She woke suddenly, gasping. She didn't know where she was . The air was cold and heavy, and smelled of earth and worms .
He was clad in the ragged remains of an old robe, pink and white . His hair was long and grey and tangled, the loose skin of his cheeks and chin was covered with coarse stubble . She felt naked without her mail, and she wanted Oathkeeper at her side . The flickering light cast queer shadows .
Jeyne dressed your wounds, mayhaps. Whatever else you may have done, you won those wounds honorably, in the best of causes . "What is it that you think I’ve done?" she said .
Thoros lit a taper from the sagging candle, and vanished into a black hole beneath a ledge of rock . Brienne found herself alone in the small cave . She found only rocks. One fit her fist nicely... but she remembered the Whispers .
“Podrick Payne is just a boy.” “You know how boys will boast.” “He has fought in battles, by his own admission. He has even killed, to hear him tell it.” “Have pity.” “My lady,” Thoros smiled wanly . “I remember justice. It had a pleasant taste. You are not the only one with wounds, Lady Brienne. Some of my brothers were good men when this began. Some were... less good, shall we say?
I will not let them see my fear, she promised herself instead . There were four of them, hard men with haggard faces, clad in mail and scale and leather . The biggest of the four wore a stained and tattered yellow cloak .
Brienne was weak and wounded, naked beneath the woolen shift . The way ahead rose sharply, turning twice before emerging in a much larger cavern full of outlaws . A fire pit had been dug into the center of the floor, and the air was blue with smoke .
Thoros of Myr drew a parchment from his sleeve, and put it down next to the sword . It bears the boy king’s seal and says the bearer is about his business .
"The boy was the Imp’s own squire, m’lady," he said to Lady Stoneheart . "My lady, I mean. Sorry." "You have nothing to be sorry for," the boy said miserably .
The woman in grey looked at the sword, the parchment, the bronze-and-iron crown . She reached up under her jaw and grasped her neck . Instead she spoke... Her voice was halting, broken, tortured . The sound seemed to come from her throat, part croak, part wheeze, part death rattle .
The Freys slashed her throat from ear to ear . When we found her by the river she was three days dead . Harwin begged me to give her the kiss of life, but it had been too long .
Lady Catelyn’s fingers dug deep into her throat, and the words came rattling out, choked and broken, a stream as cold as ice . The northman said, “She says that you must choose. Take the sword and slay the Kingslayer, or be hanged for a betrayer. The sword or the noose, she says. Choose,” Brienne remembered her dream, waiting in her father’s hall for the boy she was to marry.
The Hound snatched the end of the rope from the man holding it . "Let’s see if she can dance," he said, and gave a yank . If this is another dream, it is time for me to awaken .
“Septa” Cersei sat beneath the Iron Throne, clad in green silk and golden lace . “Tell his High Holiness that we are vexed with him. He presumes too much.” Emeralds glimmered on her fingers and in her golden hair . By the time this mummer’s farce was done they would know they had but one true queen .
Ser Osney Kettleblack has confessed his knowledge of the queen to the High Septon himself, before the altar of the Father . Some of the ladies in the galleries began to slip away, followed by a stream of petty lords and knights from the back of the hall . She is not. I examined her myself, at the behest of His High Holiness. Her maidenhead is not intact.
Grand Maester Pycelle, you shall accompany Septa Moelle back to Beloved Baelor’s Sept, and return to us with the truth about our Margaery’s maidenhead . The wretched old fool cannot say enough, but now that he has lost the power of speech, the queen thought .
Harys Swyft appeared dazed. He stumbled at the door and might have fallen if Aurane Waters hadn't caught him by the arm . He left the rest unspoken; once on the Blackwater, his dromonds could stop Mace Tyrell from bringing his army back across the river .
Cersei mused that a chicken is too bold for you . If Mace Tyrell will not even assault Storm’s End, how do you imagine that he would ever dare attack the gods? "I will go to Baelor’s Sept myself to speak to Queen Margaery and the High Septon," Ser Harys dabbed at his brow with a velvet sleeve .
Ser Osfryd Kettleblack arrived as the ink was drying . Ser Tallad the Tall, Jalabhar Xho, Hamish the Harper, Hugh Clifton, Mark Mullendore, Bayard Norcross, Lambert Turnberry, Horas Redwyne . He may try to resist you if the rumors reached their ears in time .
The Faith has its own knights now. Let them defend the sept. Oh, and close the city gates as well. No one is to enter or leave King’s Landing without my leave, until all this is done and settled. By the time the sun went down that day, all of the accused traitors were in custody .
Lady Merryweather helped Cersei dress for their visit to the little queen . "Something suitably devout and drab for the High Septon. He’s like to make me pray with him," she said . She chose a soft woolen dress that covered her from throat to ankle .
Prince Aemon the Dragonknight championed his sister Queen Naerys against Ser Morghil’s accusations . Lady Taena laughed, and Ser Meryn has been feeling ill of late . “Any mother would do the same to protect her children,” said Cersei .
The queen was pleased to see that the bones and filth had been cleaned away . The crowd was neither as numerous nor as unruly as the sparrows had been . They stood about in small clumps, gazing sullenly at the doors of the Great Sept .
Cersei found Margaery barefoot and shivering, clad in the roughspun shift of a novice sister . "They took my clothes from me," the little queen told her once they were alone . Megga sent one septa crashing into the candles and set her robe afire .
Cersei took Margaery’s hand in hers . “I have not been idle, though. They will tell His High Holiness of your innocence, I am certain, and swear to it at your trial.” “You are the queen. The knights of the Kingsguard are sworn to defend you. You are a trial by battle? Loras is hurt, though, elsewise he...” She pulled her hand away .
Four shriveled septas escorted the queen down the tower steps . Each of the crones seemed more feeble than the last . The steps ended well below the earth .
Cersei thought the carvings crude and ugly, but there was a certain power to them . She resisted the urge to say, I am the queen. “I did.” “All men sin, even kings and queens. I have sinned myself, and been forgiven.” “Perhaps she is not. Holy septas have examined her, and testify that her maidenhead is broken. She has drunk of moon tea, to murder the fruit of her fornications in her 
A sacred court of seven judges shall sit upon this case . Three shall be of your female sex. A maiden, a mother, and a crone . Margaery does have the right to demand that her guilt be proven by wager of battle .
Ser Osney Kettleblack hung naked from the ceiling, swinging from a pair of heavy iron chains . He had been whipped. His back and shoulders were laid almost bare, cuts and welts crisscrossed his legs and arse as well . "I seldom feel so close to god as when I am being whipped for mine own wickedness," she said .
Ser Osney Kettleblack said, “The Wall. You promised me the Wall.” “He is mad.” Cersei whirled, and ran. The High Septon tried to seize her, but he was some old sparrow and she was a lioness of the Rock . She pushed him aside and burst through the door, slamming it behind her with a clang .
Septa Scolera ran as far as the sept, but no farther than the four old crones below . "I will have your heads for this, I will have all your heads. Let me pass," she shouted . She ran to the altar of the Mother, but they caught her there, a score of them .
She screamed and kicked and howled until her throat was raw from shouting . The cell turned freezing cold, so she had to squat in a corner to make her water . Every time she closed her eyes, Unella was shaking her and asking her if she wanted to confess her sins.
Septa Moelle brought her a bowl of some waterly grey gruel as the sun was coming up . She ate the bread and fish and demanded wine to wash it down . No wine appeared, only Septa Unella, making her hourly visit to ask if the queen was ready to confess . What was her council doing? Cravens and traitors .
He is safe and well, secure within the walls of Maegor’s Holdfast, protected by the Kingsguard. He is lonely, though. Fretful. He asks for you, and for his little queen. “She is to be tried as well, by the same court that conducts your trial. I had the Blue Bard delivered to the High Septon, as Your Grace commanded.” His wits were dull for want of sleep .
Ser Harys Swyft and Grand Maester Pycelle have dispatched a raven to Casterly Rock . If he means to accept, he had best make haste. Mace Tyrell has abandoned his siege of Storm’s End . “They let Taena go.” That was the best thing she had heard since the High Sparrow had said no .
"Your Grace, I am at a loss. I do not know how to counsel you..." The queen knew she dare not trust her fate to a court of sparrows . It will have to be a trial by battle. There is no other way .
“This man had played us false!” Pink spittle flew from his lips as he jabbed a finger at Edmure Tully . He wore a quilted doublet of red wool with a leaping trout embroidered on its chest . “I do not recall asking you to let Ser Brynden escape,” he said .
Lord Edmure’s smile went away . He had the same blue eyes as his sister Catelyn . Jaime saw the same loathing there that he’d once seen in hers .
Ser Addam Marbrand was leading the search on the south side of the river . He had considered enlisting the riverlords as well, but Vance and Piper and their ilk were more like to help the Blackfish escape than clap him into fetters . “You have a garrison of two hundred,” Lord Emmon had an anxious disposition .
Jaime called for a guard. Take his lordship back to his tower and see that he’s fed . Lord Beric may try to free Edmure before they reach the Golden Tooth . Jeyne Westerling had been Robb Stark’s queen .
Jeyne was a willowy girl, no more than fifteen or sixteen, more awkward than graceful . She had narrow hips, breasts the size of apples, a mop of chestnut curls, and the soft brown eyes of a doe . "I am sorry for your loss. The boy had courage, I’ll give him that."
The Westerlings were an old House, and proud, but Lady Sybell herself had been born a Spicer . Younger sons would have been the best that Sybell Spicer’s daughters could have hoped for in the ordinary course of events . If the girl took another husband too soon, inevitably there would come whispers that the Young Wolf was the father .
Lord Tywin's dead hand moves us all from the grave . "Joy is my late uncle Gerion's natural daughter," Lady Sybell looked as if she had swallowed a lemon . Jaime would happily have strangled the woman with her seashell necklace .
Ser Forley had to canter past the Westerlings as he rode down the column on his way back to Riverrun . The widow rode with downcast eyes, huddled beneath a hooded cloak . He found himself wondering if Cersei would tear her gown if she should hear that he was dead .
Edwyn blurted out, “My father’s blood is on your hands, ser.” That took Jaime a bit aback. “You were the one who sent him home, were you not?” Someone had to. “Has some ill befallen Ser Ryman?” “Dondarrion?” “Him, or Thoros, or this woman Stoneheart.” Even his own sons would not mourn him long.
Edwyn and Black Walder sneered at Seagard . He seized Whalen’s axe and cut the monster loose of the net they’d thrown over him . "We found a thousand corpses afterward," said Jaime .
Daven proposed that they drag it all to Raventree and use it there . Jaime told him to put everything to the torch, starting with the gallows . Half a dozen deaths were more the rule, and some nights were worse .
Ser Ilyn smiled in a way Jaime did not like a silent Cersei . "I can’t remember when we first began to kiss. It was innocent at first. Until it wasn’t," he said . Ser Osmund may not take kindly to the gelding .
Ser Dermot of the Rainwood returned to the castle empty-handed . He’d lost two sentries to them, but the beasts had no fear of them . The wolves had come out of the dark to savage them, Jate said .
Beric Dondarrion is to be captured alive, so he can be brought back to King’s Landing. A thousand people need to see him die, or else he won’t stay dead.” Strongboar grumbled at that, but finally agreed . The next day he departed with his squire and men-at-arms, plus Beardless Jon Bettley .
The truth could cost the boy his throne . Would you sooner have a father or a chair, lad? Jaime wished he knew the answer . Ser Kevan may agree to serve as Tommen’s Hand .
Ser Desmond Grell, Lord Hoster’s old master-at-arms, preferred to take the black . He assigned a dozen of Gregor Clegane’s men to escort the prisoners to Maidenpool . Lord Emmon assembled all of Riverrun in the yard, Lord Edmure’s people and his own .
Whitesmile Wat went home with Ser Forley, so I thought I’d see if I could win his place . But I know twice as many bawdy songs as he does . You should get on famously with my aunt, said Jaime .
“I am not your sister, Jaime.” He could not tell how old she was. Fifteen, he thought, or fifty. “He could never abide being laughed at. That was the thing he hated most.” “Is it?” She smiled sadly. “Count your hands, child.” One. “In my dreams I always have two hands.” He raised his right arm and stared uncomprehending at the ugliness of his stump . “We all dream of things we cannot have
Jaime flung aside the covers with the stump of his sword hand . The fire in the hearth had died, and the window had blown open . He crossed the pitch-dark chamber to fumble with the shutters, but when he reached the window he threw them wide .
Squires, stableboys, and highborn pages fought a snowball war up and down the wards and all along the battlements . There was a time, not long ago, when he might have been out making snowballs with the best of them . It was Riverrun’s old maester, with a message clutched in his hand .
The Redwyne Straits were swarming with longships, as they had been warned in Tyrosh . The Ironmen had sacked Ryamsport and took Vinetown and Starfish Harbor for their own, using them as bases to prey on shipping bound for Oldtown . Thrice shortships were sighted by the crow’s nest, but the Cinnamon Wind soon outdistanced them .
The Cinnamon Wind began to bump up against corpses drifting down to the sea . Some of the bodies carried complements of crows, who rose into the air complaining noisily when the swan ship disturbed their rafts . Merchanters and fishing boats were the most common, but they saw abandoned longships too .
Captain of Huntress was a tall man in a smoke-grey cloak with a border of red satin flames . He brought his galley in alongside the Cinnamon Wind, raised his oars, and shouted that he was coming aboard . Father and daughter conferred briefly, then agreed . “My apologies,” the captain said when his inspection was complete .
Hundreds of their ships afflict us now, sailing out of the Shield Islands . They have taken Stonecrab Cay, the Isle of Pigs, and the Mermaid’s Palace . "The Hightower must be doing something," Sam blurted .
The Tarly lands lay inland a hundred leagues northeast of Oldtown . They should be well beyond the reach of ironmen and longships, even with his lord father off fighting in the riverlands and the castle lightly held . Sam could not bear the thought that he might have brought Gilly and her babe all this long way to keep them out of harm .
Sam will hire a wagon and some horses and take her back to Oldtown . They reached Oldtown on a cold damp morning, when the fog was so thick that the beacon of the Hightower was the only part of the city to be seen . A boom stretched across the harbor, linking two dozen rotted hulks .
Ser Gunthor reemerged and gave the signal for the chain to be opened so the Cinnamon Wind could slip through the boom to dock . Sam followed the archers across the plank, but once ashore they parted company and went their separate ways .
Lord Randyll Tarly was known in Oldtown, but little loved . He pulled his cloak up and quickened his pace . Half a dozen bored scribes sat in open stalls waiting for custom .
A seagull was perched on the Young Dragon’s head, and two more on the blade . At the Weeping Dock, Sam watched two acolytes help an old man into a boat for the short voyage to the Bloody Isle . A young mother climbed in after him, a babe not much older than Gilly’s squalling in her arms .
Sam waved his quill at a bench along the wall. “Sit. You’ll be called when wanted.” Sam took a seat on the bench. Others came and went. Some spoke to the man on the dais and were sent through the door behind him and up a turnpike stair .
Sam has been fifty years an acolyte . He hates novices, particularly novices of noble birth . “How could you tell that I’m half Dornish,” Sam said .
Archmaester Walgrave's wits are prone to wander, so Theobald stepped up and said he’d serve his term . He was more than just the oldest living maester in Westeros .
Maester Aemon spoke awkwardly of King Stannis and Melisandre of Asshai, intending to stop at that, but one thing led to another and found himself speaking of Mance Rayder and his wildlings . Jon’s becoming lord commander, the Blackbird, Dareon, Braavos, the dragons Xhondo saw in Qarth, the Cinnamon Wind and all that Maesters whispered toward the end . Sam touched him lightly on the
The Ravenry was supposedly the stronghold of a pirate lord who sat here robbing ships as they came down the river . The drawbridge had not been raised in living memory. It was cool and dim inside the castle walls .
The blond youth turned from the candle, blinking . “Sam. A new novice, come to see the Mage.” “They will take anything these days. Dusky dogs and Dornishmen, pig boys, cripples, cretins, and now a black-clad whale. And here I thought leviathans were grey.” A half cape striped in green and gold draped one shoulder .
Archmaester Marwyn looked more like a dockside thug than a maester . His head was too big for his body, and the way it thrust forward from his shoulders made him look as if he were about to tear off someone’s head . He had the biggest hands that Sam had ever seen . The room beyond was large and round .
Archmaester Marwyn glanced at the candle for a moment . “What feeds a dragon’s fire?” asked Sam . The sorcerers of the Freehold could see across mountains, seas, and deserts .
Marwyn spat a gob of red phlegm onto the floor . He chewed a bit. “Still...” Alleras stepped up next to Sam . “Perhaps it’s good that he died before he got to Oldtown,” Sam said .
Marwyn glanced at Sam again, and frowned . “You... you should stay and forge your chain. If I were you, I would do it quickly. A time will come when you’ll be needed on the Wall.” Sam turned to the pasty-faced novice . Tell them that Aemon commanded you to put yourself into their hands.
I was still writing when it dawned on me that the book had become too big to publish in a single volume... and I wasn’t close to finished yet . The more I thought about that, the more I felt that the readers would be better served by a book that told all the story for half the characters . So that’s the route I chose to take.
A Dance with Dragons will focus on events along the Wall and across the sea . —George R. R. Martin June 2005 APPENDIX THE KINGS AND THEIR COURTS THE QUEEN REGENT CERSEI LANNISTER, the First of Her Name .
Ser Kevan’s son, her cousin, formerly King Robert’s squire and Cersei’s lover, newly raised to Lord of Darry . Ser Emmon Frey, Ser Kean’s daughter, a girl of three, killed by outlaws, —SER CLEOS FREY, called TY, Cleos’ son, . —WILLEM LANNISTER, Lady Genna’s second son, named RED WALDER, Lady
Shiera Crakehall, —SER LUCION LANNISTER, their son, LANNA, their daughter, m. Lord Antario Jast —LADY MARGOT, a cousin still more distant . Lord Titus Peake, -King Tommen’s small council .
QUEEN MARGAERY of House Tyrell, a maid of sixteen, widowed bride of King Joffrey I Baratheon . SER LORAS TYRELL, Margaery’s brother, THE GALLANT .
SER WILLAM WYTHERS, Margaery’s captain of guards, and SER OSNEY KETTLEBLACK, younger brothers to Ser Osmund Kettleblack, —SER GREGOR CLEGANE, called THE MOUNTAIN THAT RIDES, dying painfully of a poisoned wound . SER ADDAM MARBRAND, Commander of the City Watch of King’s Landing (the Golden cloaks), —GYLES RO
RENNIFER LONGWATERS, chief undergaoler of the Red Keep’s dungeons, —RUGEN, undergeoler for the black cells, and —LORD HALLYNE THE PYROMANCER, a Wisdom of the Guild of Alchemists . —NOHO DIMITTIS, envoy from the Iron Bank of Braavos, and more recently of the Brave Companions, lost a monkey and half an arm in
King Tommen’s banner shows the crowned stag of Baratheon, black on gold, and the lion of Lannister, gold on crimson, combatant . THE KING AT THE WALL STANNIS BARATHEON, second son of Lord Steffon Barathon and Lady Cassana of House Estermont, Lord of Dragonstone, styling himself King of Westeros .
King Robert’s son by Lady Delena Florent, a boy of twelve, sailing the narrow sea on the Mad Prendos . SER ANDREW ESTERMONT, King Stannis’s cousin, commanding Edric’s escort, —SER GERALD GOWER, LEWYS called THE FISHWIFE, SER TRISTON OF TALLY HILL, OMER BLACKBERRY, king’s men, Edric's guards and protector
SER DAVOS SEAWORTH, called THE ONION KNIGHT, Lord of the Rainwood, Admiral of the Narrow Sea, and Hand of the King . SER AXELL FLORENT, Queen Selyse’s uncle, foremost of the queen’s men, —SALLADHAR SAAN of Lys, a pirate and sellsail, master of the Valyrian and a fleet of galleys .
Lord Eldon's brother, Ser Lomas's son, protects Edric Storm upon the narrow sea . He has taken for his banner the fiery heart of the Lord of Light . Within the heart is the crowned stag of House Baratheon, in black .
Balon Greyjoy’s first rebellion against the Iron Throne was put down by King Robert I Baratheon and Lord Eddard Stark of Winterfell . but in the chaos following Robert’s death Lord Balon named himself king once more, and sent his ships to attack the north . BALON GREYJOY, the Ninth of His Name Since the Grey King, King of the Iron Islands and the North . King of Salt and Rock, Son of the Sea Wind,
LORD RODRIK HARLAW, LORD BAELOR BLACKTYDE, LORD MELDRED MERLYN, HARMUND SHARP VICTARION GREYJOY, brother to Balon Greyjoy, master of the Iron Victory .
Victarion’s captains: HOTHO HARLAW, ALVYN SHARP, FRALEGG THE STRONG, ROMNY WEAVER, WILL HUMBLE, LITTLE LENWOOD TAWNEY, RALF KENNING, MARON VOLMARK, GOROLD GOODBROTHER, —Euron’s champions: GERMUND BOTLEY, LORD ORKWOOD OF ORKMONT, DONNOR SALTCLIFF
Lord of Lordsport —Germund’s sons, BALON and QUELLON, —SARGON and LUCIMORE, Sawane’s half brothers —WEX, a mute boy of twelve years, bastard son of Sargon, squire to Theon Greyjoy —WALDON WYNCH, Lord of Iron Holt . —RODRIK HARLAW, called THE READER — Lord of Har
BLIND BEN BLACKTYDE, a priest of the Drowned God, ON GREAT WYK —GOROLD GOODBROTHER, Lord of the Hammerhorn, —his sons, GREYDON, GRAN, and GORMOND, triplets . Their sigil is a white moon-and-falcon upon a sky-blue field .
ROBERT ARRYN, Lord of the Eyrie, Defender of the Vale, styled by his mother True Warden of the East, a sickly boy of eight years, sometimes called SWEETROBIN . LADY LYSA of House Tully, widow of Lord Jon Arryn, pushed from the Moon Door to her death, —his stepfather, PETYR BAELISH, called LITTLEFINGER . ALAYNE STONE, Lord Petyr’
MYA STONE, a mule tender and guide, bastard daughter of King Robert I Baratheon, —OSSY and CARROT .SER LYN CORBRAY, his brother and heir, who wields the famed blade Lady Forlorn .
ROYCE COLDWATER, Lord of Coldwater Burn, —SER DAMON SHETT, Knight of Gull Tower —UTHOR TOLLETT .SER DONNEL, her second son, the Knight of the Gate, a squire oft called HARRY THE HEIR . HARROLD HARDYNG, her ward, is now called YOUNG LORD HUNTER .
Lord Alester Florent followed his liege lord in declaring for King Renly . His brother Ser Axell chose Stannis, husband to his niece Selyse . The fleet and Ser Imry Florent both lost in the Battle of Blackwater .
HOUSE FREY The Freys are bannermen to House Tully, but have not always been diligent in their duty . At the onset of the War of the Five Kings, Robb Stark won Lord Walder’s allegiance by pledging to marry one of his daughters or granddaughters .
Corenna Swann, died of a wasting illness, —Stevron’s eldest son, SER RYMAN, heir to the Twins, wed to Janyce Hunter —Edwyn’s daughter, WALDA, a girl of nine . Jeyne Lydden, . died in a fall from a horse .
Jeyne Darry, —Cleos’s son, TYWIN, a squire of twelve, killed by outlaws near Maidenpool, m. Genna Lannister —Perriane's son SER HARYS HAIGH, .Harys’ son, WALDER HAIRGH, is a boy of five . Ser Leslyn Haigh, Lord Walder’s daughter, M. Ser leslyn . Haigh
ALYN HAIGH, a squire, — by his third wife, LADY CYRENNA, of House Swann . SER JARED, Lord Walder’s fourth son, m. Alys Frey, –Jared’s son SER TYTOS slain by Sandor Clegane during the Red Wedding . Zhoe Blanetree, -Tytos’s
Elyana’s son, SER DAMON VYPREN, four, —SYMOND, m. Betharios of Braavos, .Symond’s daughter, BRADAMAR, a boy of ten, ward of Oro Tendyris . Wynafrei Whent, -many stillbirths and miscarriages, –MERRETT, hanged at Oldstones . Mariya Dar
SER RAYMUND, m. Beony Beesbury, —Raymund’s son, ROBERT, an acolyte at the Citadel, serving with alchemist in Lys . Raymund's twin daughters, SERRA and SARRA, called LITTLE BEE . SER WHALEN, Lord Walder’s fourteenth son, called BIG WALDER, eight .
ROBERT BRAX, nine, a page at Casterly Rock, —Morya’s son, WALDER BRAx, 9 . Lord Walder’s daughter, called TYTA THE MAID, . —no progeny, by his sixth wife, LADY SARYA of House Whent: —SER PERWYN, Lord . Walder's fifteenth son, –SER BENFREY, Lord Wald
Lord Walder’s lastborn son, a boy of nine briefly betrothed to Arya Stark, —SHIREI, Lord’s youngest child, . His eighth wife, LADY JOYEUSE of House Erenford . The Hightowers of Oldtown are among the oldest and proudest of the Great Houses of Westeros, tracing their descent back to the First Men .
Lord Arthur Ambrose, —Lord Leyton’s daughter, LEYLA, m. Lord Jorah Mormont, presently chief concubine to Tregar Ormollen of Lys . Jeyne Fossoway, of the green apple Fosoways, . Lord leyton’’s youngest son, SER HUMFREY, –LorD Leyton's bannermen: —TOMMEN COSTAYNE, Lord
Archmaesters of the Citadel: —ARCHMAESTER NORREN, Seneschal for the waning year, whose ring and rod and mask are electrum . ARCHMESTER MARWYN, called VINEGAR VAELLYN .
HOUSE LANNISTER The Lannisters of Casterly Rock remain the principal support of King Tommen’s claim to the Iron Throne . They boast of descent from Lann the Clever, the legendary trickster of the Age of Heroes .
Ser Emmon Frey, now Lord of Riverrun, m. Jeyne of House Darry, killed by outlaws, —Cleos’s eldest son, SER TYWIN FREY, called TY, now heir to Riverrun . Genna’s youngest son, WALDER FREy, called WALDEN, a page at Casterly Rock, .WHITESMILE WAT, an . singer in service to Lady Gna
Lord Antario Jast, a cousin, m. Lord Titus Peake, —the household at Casterly Rock: —MAESTER CREYLEN, healer, tutor, and counselor —VYLARR, captain of guards —SER BENEDICT BROOM, master-at-arms . SER ADDAM MARBRAND, his son and heir, Commander of the City Watch of King’s Landing, Lord of Ashemark, 
Ser Melwyn Sarsfield's daughter, JOANNA, —Ser Harys’s daughter SHIERLE, m. Sermelwyn ESTREN, Lord of Wyndhall —GAWEN WESTERLING —his wife, LADY SYBELL, of House Spicer —her brother, SER ROLPH SPICER, newly raised to Lord of Castamere . SER ROLLAM, widowed wife of Robb Stark, a girl
a ward at Casterly Rock HOUSE MARTELL Dorne was the last of the Seven Kingdoms to swear fealty to the Iron Throne . Blood, custom, geography, and history all helped to set the Dornishmen apart from the other kingdoms . Myrcella Baratheon was betrothed to Prince Trystane .
Prince Oberyn’s paramour, natural daughter of Lord Harmen Uller, —THE SAND SNAKES, Obery’s bastard daughters: —OBARA, eight-and-twenty, his daughter by an Oldtown whore, called LADY NYM . —SARELLA, nineteen, her daughter by a trader, captain of the Feathered Kiss, and —ELIA, 14 . His daughter by Ellaria Sand, 12 .
Prince Trystane, —SER ARYS OAKHEART, Myrcella’s bedmaid and companion, a distant cousin —SEPTA EGLANTINE . SER MANFREY MARTELL, counselor, healer, and counselor, –RICASSO, Seneschal at Sunspear, old and blind .
SER DAEMON SAND, Ryon’s natural son, the Bastard of Godsgrace, —DAGOS MANWOODY, Lord of Kingsgrave —MORS and DICKON, his sons —SER MYLES, his brother —LARRA BLACKMONT, Lady of Blackmont —JYNESSA, her daughter and heir —PERROS, her son, a squire . SER ARRON, his eldest son and 
The Starks ruled from Winterfell as Kings in the North until Torrhen Stark, the King Who Knelt, chose to swear fealty to Aegon the Dragon rather than give battle . During the War of the Five Kings, Lord Eddard Stark won every battle, but was betrayed and murdered by the Freys and Boltons .
Lord Jon Arryn, slain with a shove, —their son, ROBERT ARRYN, Lord of the Eyrie and Defender of the Vale, a sickly boy . SER BRYNDEN TULLY, his mother’s uncle, castellan of Riverrun, called THE BLACKFISH .
Roose’s natural son, called THE BASTARD OF BOLTON, castellan of the Dreadfort, —WALDER FREY and WALDERFREY, called BIG WELDER and LITTLE WALder, Ramsay’s squires . —BETH CASSELL, KYRA, TURNIP, PALLA, BANDY, SHYRA, and OLD NAN, women of Winterfell held captive at the D
—Rickard’s uncle, ARNOLF, castellan of Karhold, —GALBART GLOVER, Master of Deepwood Motte, unwed —ROBETT, his brother and heir . —Galbart’s wife, SYBELLE of House Locke, LARENCE SNOW, natural son of Lord Halys Hornwood, a boy of thirteen .
—SER JORAH MORMONT, Lord Jeor’s son, once Lord of Bear Island in his own right, a knight condemned and exiled, —SER HELMAN TALLHART, Master of Torrhen’s Square, slain at Duskendale . —LEOBALD, his son and heir, killed at Winterfell —Leobald’s wife, BERENA of House Hornwood .
HOUSE TULLY Lord Edmyn Tully of Riverrun was one of the first of the river lords to swear fealty to Aegon the Conquerer . The Tully sigil is a leaping trout, silver, on a field of rippling blue and red .
SER ROBIN RYGER, captain of the guard, —LONG LEW, ELWOOD, DELP, guardsmen —UTHERYDES WAYN, steward of Riverrun . SER DENYS MALLISTER, Lord Jason’s uncle, a man of the Night’s Watch, is a prisoner in his own castle .
HOUSE TYRELL The Tyrells rose to power as stewards to the Kings of the Reach . They claim descent from Garth Greenhand, gardener king of the First Men . Mace Tyrell declared his support for Renly Baratheon at the beginning of the War of the Five Kings, and gave him the hand of his daughter Margaery .
Mace’s widowed mother, LADY OLENNA of House Redwyne, called THE QUEEN OF THORNS, —ARRYK and ERRYK, her guardsmen, twins seven feet tall called LEFT and RIGHT . SER HORAS REDWYNE, twin to Hobber, called HORROR .
Ser Leo Blackbar, —Moryn’s son, LEO, called LEO THE LAZY, a novice at the Citadel of Oldtown, .Mace’s uncle, MAESTER GORMON, serving at The Citadel . Lady Lysa Meadows’ son, RAYMUND and RICKARD, died at Ashford . SER OLYMER, m. Lord Jon Bulwer, died of a summer fever .
Lord of Horn Hill, Lord of the Arbor, —SER HORAS and SER HOBBER, his twin sons . SER ARYS, a Sworn Brother of the Kingsguard, -MATHIS ROWAN, Lady of Old Oak, .Lady Arwyn’s youngest son, Lord Paxter’s healer, MAESTER BALLABAR, –ARWYN OAKHEART .
REBELS AND ROGUES SMALLFOLK AND SWORN BROTHERS LORDLINGS, WANDERERS, AND COMMON MEN . SER CREIGHTON LONGBOUGH and SER ILLIFER THE PENNILESS, a merchant fearful and niggardly, —SER SHADRICK OF THE SHADY GLEN .
Ser Hyle’s cousin, NIMBLE DICK, a Crabb of Crackclaw Point, —EUSTACE BRUNE, Lord of the Dyre Den . —SER ROGER HOGG, the Knight of Brownhollow, his cousin, and —SEPTON MERIBALD, barefoot septon .
LADY AMEREI FREY, called GATEHOUSE AMI, outlaws in his band, LADY STONEHEART, a hooded woman, sometimes called MOTHER MERCY, THE SILENT SISTER, and THE HANGWOMAN, —LEM, called LEM LEMONCLOAK . OUTLAWS AND BROKEN MEN BERIC DONDARRION, once Lord of Blackhaven, six times slain,
HARWIN, son of Hullen, once in service to Lord Eddard Stark of Winterfell, —JACK-BE-LUCKY —TOM OF SEVENSTREAMS, a singer of dubious report, called TOM SEVENSTRINGS and TOM O’ SEVANS . —LIKELY LUKE, NOTCH, MUDGE, BEARDLESS DICK, outlaws, SANDOR CLEGANE, called THE HO
LORD LYMOND LYCHESTER, an old man of wandering wit, once held Ser Maynard at the bridge, his young caretaker, MAESTER ROONE, —the ghost of High Heart . THE SWORN BROTHERS OF THE NIGHT’S WATCH JON SNOW, the Bastard of Winterfell, nine-hundred-and-ninety-eighth Lord Commander of the Night’s Watch, his white direwolf, his 
OTHELL YARWYCK, First Builder, —SPARE BOOT, HALDER, ALBETT, KEGS, builders —SEPTON CELLADOR, a drunken devout . —SER ALLISER THORNE, former master-at-arms, briefly Lord of Harrenhal —MAESTER AEMON (TARGARYEN), a blind man, one hundred and two years old . ARRON and EMRICK, SATIN
THE WILDLINGS, OR THE FREE FOLK MANCE RAYDER, King-beyond-the-Wall, a captive at Castle Black, —his wife, DALLA, died in childbirth . —HARMA, called DOGSHEAD, slain beneath the Wall —HALLECK, her brother —THE LORD OF BONES, mocked as RATTLESHIRT .
Styr’s son, the new Magnar of Thenn, —TORMUND, Mead-King of Ruddy Hall, called GIANTSBANE, TALL-TALKER, HORN-BLOWER, and BREAKER OF ICE, also THUNDERFIST, HUSBAND TO BEARS, SPEAKER TO GODS, and FATHER OF HOSTS . TOREGG THE TALL, TORWYRD THE TAME
Queen of Meereen, Queen of the Andals and the Rhoynar and the First Men, Lord of the Seven Kingdoms, Protector of the Realm, Khaleesi of the Great Grass Sea, called DAENERYS STORMBORN, the UNBURNT, MOTHER OF DRAGONS, —her dragons, DROGON, VISERION, RHAEGAL,—her brother, RHAEGAR, Prince of Dragonstone
—DAARIO NAHARIS, a flamboyant Tyroshi sellsword, commanding the company of Stormcrows, —BEN PLUMM, called BROWN BEN . her captains and commanders: —GRAZDAN MO ERAZ, once ko to Khal Drogo —KHAL JHAQO .
The Targaryens are the blood of the dragon, descended from the high lords of the ancient Freehold of Valyria, their heritage marked by lilac, indigo, and violet eyes and hair of silver-gold . The founder of the dynasty, Aegon the Conquerer, took both his sisters to wife and fathered sons on each . In BRAAVOS FERREGO ANTARYON, Sealord of Braa
LOTHO LORNEL, a merchant-captain of the Vixen, is a dealer in old books and scrolls, —EZZELYNO, oft drunk . —SEPTON EUSTACE, disgraced and defrocked —TERRO and ORBELO a pair of bravos —BLIND BEQQO .
A special tip of the helm to Lodey of the Three Fists, Pod the Devil Bunny, Trebla and Daj the Trivial Kings, sweet Caress of the Wall, Lannister the Squirrel Slayer, and the rest of the Brotherhood Without Banners . Their Westeros website and concordance is a joy and a wonder .
ABOUT THE AUTHOR GEORGE R. R. MARTIN sold his first story in 1971 and has been writing professionally since then . In the mid ’90s he returned to prose, his first love, and began work on his epic fantasy series, A Song of Ice and Fire . When he’s allowed to leave, he returns to Santa Fe, New Mexico .
The Queen Regent The King At The Wall King Of The Isles And The North Other Houses Great And Small House Arryn House Florent House Frey House Hightower House Lannister House Martell House Stark House Tully House Tyrell Rebels And Rogues Smallfolk And Sworn Brothers Lordlings, Wanderers, And Common Men Outlaws, Or The Free Folk Beyond The Narrow Sea The Queen Across The Water In Braavos . Appendix: The Kings And Their Courts
