DRAGONS TYRION DAENERYS JON BRAN TYROON THE MERCHANT’S MAN JON TYrION DAVOS JON AENERYs REEK JON TRYRION THE LOST LORD THE WINDBLOWN THE WAYWARD BRIDE TY RION JON DAVIDRYS MELISANDRE REeK TYRRION BRAN JON ADENERY S THE PRINCE OF WINTERFELL THE W
THEON DAENERYS JON CERSEI THE QUEENSGUARD THE IRON SUITOR TYRION JON THE DISCARDED KNIGHT THE SACRIFICE VICTARION THE GRIFFIN REBORN THE KINGBREAKER THE DRAGONTAMER JON The QUEEN’S HAND THE GIRL CERSeI EPILOGUE WESTEROS THE BOY KING The KING AT THE WALL KING OF THE ISLES
The book you hold in your hands is the fifth volume of A Song of Ice and Fire . The fourth volume was A Feast for Crows . Both Dance and Feast take up the story immediately after the events of the third volume in the series .
The warg stopped beneath a tree and sniffed, his grey-brown fur dappled by shadow . A sigh of piney wind brought the man-scent to him, over fainter smells that spoke of fox and hare, seal and stag, even wolf . Only man stripped the skins from other beasts and wore their hides and hair .
The trees had grown icy teeth, snarling down from the bare brown branches . One Eye ripped through the undergrowth, spraying snow . The fur-wrapped bundle she clutched was her pup. Leave her for last, the voice whispered, the males are the danger .
Varamyr shivered, coughed and licked his lips . His lips cracked, his throat dry and parched, but the taste of blood and fat filled his mouth . Haggon was weak, afraid of his own power. He died weeping and alone .
His throat was raw, but it felt good to hear a human voice, even his own . He moved as close to the flames as he dared, coughing and shivering by turns . Blood had soaked his breeches to the knee and dried into a hard brown crust .
Mance Rayder, the King-Beyond-the-Wall, was slain by those who had been their brothers-in-arms . He had named himself Varamyr when he was ten . The terrible Lord had gone craven, but he could not bear that she should know that .
a rider came galloping through the woods on a gaunt white horse, shouting that they all should make for the Milkwater, that the Weeper was gathering warriors to cross the Bridge of Skulls and take the Shadow Tower . Many followed him; more did not. Thenns themselves had fled the place Varamyr never learned, but hundreds followed him .
Varamyr knelt to strip the cloak from her, and never saw the boy until he burst from hiding to drive the long bone knife into his side and rip it out of his clutching fingers . “Someone smashed her head. Some crow.” “No. Hornfoot men. I saw it.” Her needle pulled the gash in his side closed . If Mance is dead, the free folk are doomed .
Varamyr had died nine times before . He had died once from a spear thrust, once with a bear’s teeth in his throat, and once in a wash of blood as he brought forth a stillborn cub . When he tried to fly from it, his terror fanned the flames .
Varamyr had no flint, no tinder, no dry kindling. He would never get the fire burning again, not by himself. “Thistle!” Her chin was pointed and her nose flat, and she had a mole on one cheek with four dark hairs growing from it. An ugly face, and hard, yet he would have given much to glimpse it in the door of the hut .
Varamyr Sixskins was a name men feared. He rode to battle on the back of a snow bear thirteen feet tall . He kept three wolves and a shadowcat in thrall, and sat at the right hand of Mance Rayder . I should have slipped inside my bear and torn him to pieces .
Varamyr Sixskins lived alone in a hall of moss and mud and hewn logs . A dozen villages did him homage in bread and salt and cider, offering him fruit from their orchards and vegetables from their gardens . From time to time, some village hero would come with spear in hand to slay the beastling . Some he even blessed with children. Runts. Small, puny things, like Lump, and not one with the gift .
Varamyr lost control of his other beasts in the agony of the eagle’s death . His shadowcat had raced into the woods, whilst his snow bear turned her claws on those around him . The bear hated him, had raged each time he wore her skin or climbed upon her back . He might well begin his second life tearing at the dead flesh of his own corpse .
Bears, boars, badgers, weasels ... Haggon did not hold with such . Birds were the worst, to hear him tell it . The hunter died weeping after Varamyr took Greyskin from him .
Haggon was dead, devoured, and burned . He would lose his wolves, and live out the rest of his days as some scrawny, warty woman ... but he would live .
Varamyr could feel the snow melting on his brow . It would be good to feel warm again, though it made him sad to think that he would never see the green lands . The free folk fear skinchangers, but they honor us as well . Eastwatch was a better place to trade than Castle Black .
Sly had been slain by the turncloak crow Jon Snow . He had known what Snow was the moment he saw that great white direwolf stalking silent at his side . There would be a second life worthy of a king. He could have done it, did not doubt.
Varamyr Sixskins closed his eyes. He dreamt an old dream of a hovel by the sea, three dogs whimpering, a woman’s tears . Lump had been born a month before his proper time, and was sick so often that no one expected him to live . The whole village had taken to calling him Lump, the name his sister Meha had given him when he was still in their mother’s belly .
The gods have taken him down into the earth, into the trees . The old woman’s words had gone through Lump like a knife . Lump could not hide from him, could not slip behind his mother’s skirts or run off with the dogs to escape his father’s fury . When his father found the dogs sniffing round Bump’s body, he had no way of knowing which had done it .
Varamyr woke suddenly, violently, his whole body shaking . When he tried to move, he found that his hand was frozen to the ground . She had him by the shoulders and was shaking him, shouting in his face . He summoned all the strength still in him, leapt out of his own skin .
A dying man twitched feebly on the ground and a madwoman danced blind and bloody underneath the moon . He was in the snow and in the clouds, he was a sparrow, a squirrel, an oak . A hundred ravens took to the air, cawing as they felt him pass .
Thistle wore wool and fur and leather, and over that she wore a coat of hoarfrost . Pale pink icicles hung from her fingertips, ten long knives of frozen blood . It was red and sour, very strong, and sometimes he heaved the wine up too .
His father never had any use for drunkards, but what did that matter? His father was dead. He’d killed him. A bolt in the belly, my lord, and all for you. Tyrion marked time by the comings and goings of the cabin boy who brought the meals he did not eat . The boy always brought a brush and bucket too, to clean up .
Old Bear Mormont said the Night’s Watch had need of men like Tyrion . By now Slynt may be the lord commander . Tyrion could not seem to recall the Valyrian word for whore . The boy wet his brush and scrubbed on manfully .
Lord Tywin sat back down and Tyrion Lannister found himself waddling through the darkness with Varys at his side . Tyrion had warned his father not to say that word . He would have taken the crossbow from my hands, as once he took Tysha from my arms .
Varys had saved him from a headsman’s sword, but only because Jaime had compelled him . The sour red ran down his chin and sucked at it as if it were a woman’s breast . A storm, he realized, or else I am even drunker than I knew .
Tyrion pissed himself in his struggles, for all the good it did . He was crammed face-first into the cask with his knees pushed up against his ears . The stub of his nose itched horribly, but his arms were pinned so tightly that he could not reach to scratch it .
Tyrion reminded Tyrion of a dead sea cow that had once washed up in the caverns under Casterly Rock . He spat it at the fat man’s feet. They were in a long, dim cellar with barrel-vaulted ceilings, its stone walls spotted with nitre .
Tyrion woke naked on a goose-down feather bed so soft it felt as if he had been swallowed by a cloud . His tongue was growing hair and his throat was raw, but his cock was as hard as an iron bar . The room was dim, but there were bars of yellow sunlight showing between the slats of the shutters .
Across the pool stood a brick wall twelve feet high, with iron spikes along its top . He saw square brick towers, a great red temple and a distant manse upon a hill . I suppose I could sign on as a cabin boy and earn my way by letting the crew bugger me up and down the narrow sea .
Illyrio Mopatis says to use me for his profit . It was profit with the merchant princes of the Free Cities .
Tysha had been thinking of guardsmen during the false spring of their marriage . He had riffled his hair during his flight, before he helped himself to cheese, bread, and figs . Tyrion began his explorations with the kitchen, where two fat women and a potboy watched him warily .
Lord Tywin left fat women to their loaves and kettles and went in search of the cellar where Illyrio had decanted him the night before . There was enough wine there to keep him drunk for a hundred years . The taste of it was languorous and heady on the tongue, the color a purple so dark it looked almost black in the dim-lit cellar .
Tyrion wandered through the gardens behind the manse for a time, drinking . The walls would have shamed any proper castle, and the ornamental iron spikes along the top looked strangely naked without heads to adorn them, he decided . He saw three gates during his wanderings—the main entrance with its gatehouse, a postern by the kennels, and a garden gate hidden behind a tangle of pale ivy .
He walked along a pillared gallery and through a pointed arch . He found himself in a tiled courtyard where a woman was washing clothes at a well . She looked to be his own age, with dull red hair and a broad face dotted by freckles . The washerwoman went back to wringing out tunics and hanging them to dry .
The strongwine was making his head spin, though, and the cellar steps were steep . The empty flagon slipped from his hand and rolled across the yard . Tyrion pushed himself off the bench and went to fetch it .
I despise riddles, myself. I will tell you nothing. Do me the same favor . The only part of you that interests me is the part between your legs, he almost said . I must be sick, or dead.
A little honest loathing might be refreshing, like a tart wine after too much sweet . Tyrion Lannister gave her a leer, hoping for a taste of fear, but all she gave him was revulsion . It might please m’lord to strangle you .
Tyrion Lannister had lived all his life in a world that was too big for him . It was a cushioned throne intended to accommodate the magister’s massive buttocks . The thought made him thirsty. He called for wine .
Tyrion speared a goose liver on the point of his knife . Tyrion had a fat black mushroom halfway to his mouth, but something in Illyrio’s voice made him stop abruptly .
Illyrio Mopatis was poisoned by a mushroom not half a year ago . The pain is not so much, I am told. Some cramping in the gut, a sudden ache behind the eyes, and it is done .
Magister Illyrio ate a heron stuffed with figs, veal cutlets blanched with almond milk . Tyrion refused the swan, which reminded him of a supper with his sister . The dwarf tore a loaf of bread in half .
Tyrion feared he was about to rupture . He slapped a meaty thigh and said, “You Westerosi are all the same. You sew some beast upon a scrap of silk, and suddenly you are all lions or dragons or eagles” Tyrion admitted .
“Why would you think I mean to join Lord Stannis?” Tyrion rubbed at his nose . “My niece Myrcella is in Dorne, as it happens. And I have half a mind to make her a queen.” Illyrio smiled as his serving men spooned out bowls of black cherries .
“I am an attainted traitor, a regicide, and kinslayer.” Tyrion was unimpressed. “Words are wind. Who is this bloody savior?” “A dragon.” The cheesemonger saw the look on his face at that, and laughed .
Daenerys Targaryen awaited him upon the ebon bench that she had made her throne . She clutched her lion pelt to her chest . It was too big for her and had a musty smell, but it made her feel like her sun-and-stars was still near her .
Grey Worm lowered the torch, so she might see . The dead man’s face was smooth and hairless, though his cheeks were slashed open ear to ear . There were more wounds than she could count .
Half of her freedmen were from Yunkai, where the Wise Masters had been famed for training bedslaves . Brothels had sprouted up like mushrooms all over Meereen . It is all they know. They need to survive .
The Astapori left him neither root nor stem . They had limited their attacks to unarmed freedmen, cutting them down in the streets or breaking into their homes under the cover of darkness to murder them in their beds .
Ser Barristan Selmy remained behind. His hair was white, and there were crow’s-feet at the corners of his pale blue eyes . But his back was still un-bent, and the years had not yet robbed him of his skill at arms . Selmy was training knights for her, teaching the sons of slaves to fight with lance .
Meereen’s storehouses held ample supplies of grain, oil, olives, dried fruit, and salted meat . Dany had dispatched her tiny khalasar to subdue the hinterlands, under the command of her three bloodriders . If Daario could convince the Lhazarene to reopen the overland trade routes, grains could be brought down the river or over the hills at need .
The Great Pyramid shouldered eight hundred feet into the sky, from its huge square base to the lofty apex where the queen kept her private chambers . In some of those pyramids, the Sons of the Harpy are plotting new murders even now . Viserion sensed her disquiet. The white dragon lay coiled around a pear tree, his head resting on his tail .
Ghiscari tokar was a master’s garment, a sign of wealth and power . Dany had wanted to ban the tokar when she took Meereen, but her advisors had convinced her otherwise . It was not meant for any man who had to work .
Irri fetched her crown, wrought in the shape of the three-headed dragon of her House . Its coils were gold, its wings silver, its three heads ivory, onyx, and jade . One of her royal forebears had said that, once . Five Aegons had ruled the Seven Kingdoms of Westeros . There would have been a sixth, but the Usurper’s dogs had murdered her brother’s son when he was still
Meereenese were a sly and stubborn people who resisted her at every turn . They had freed their slaves, yes ... only to hire them back as servants at wages so meagre that most could scarce afford to eat . The Great Masters gathered atop their lofty pyramids .
Skahaz mo Kandaq was the Shavepate ... and the vilest of traitors to the Sons of the Harpy and their ilk . He had an odious face, a beetled brow, small eyes with heavy bags beneath them, oily skin . She could only pray it was an honest one as well .
Oznak zo Pahl had been cut down by Strong Belwas in single combat . His father, commander of Meereen’s city watch, had died defending the gates . Three uncles had been among the hundred sixty-three on the plaza . “Your Grace has not asked for my counsel,” said Skahaz Shavepate .
Daenerys Stormborn, the Unburnt, Queen of Meereen, Princess of the Andals and the Rhoynar and the First Men, Khaleesi of Great Grass Sea, Breaker of Shackles, and Mother of Dragons . The hall had filled. She stood with their backs to the pillars, holding shields and spears, the spikes on their caps jutting upward like a row of knives .
Irri slid the slippers onto Dany’s feet . They were gilded leather, decorated with green freshwater pearls . "Great Cleon will be pleased to know they pleased you," said Lord Ghael.
Dany nodded, and Hizdahr zo Loraq strode forth; a tall man, very slender, with flawless amber skin . He bowed on the same spot where Stalwart Shield had lain in death not long before . The nobleman had wings of wiry red-black hair sprouting from his temples .
The fighting pits have been part of Meereen since the city was founded . The combats are profoundly religious in nature, a blood sacrifice to the gods of Ghis . Victorious fighters are pampered and acclaimed, and the slain are honored and remembered .
Hizdahr zo Loraq had been urging Dany to take a Meereenese noble for her husband . The Shavepate had offered to set aside his wife for her, but the notion made her shudder . Grazdan, she had been forewarned, was a cousin of the Green Grace .
Dany had refused to compensate any of the Great Masters for the value of their slaves . The noble Grazdan had once owned a slave woman who was a very fine weaver . He had bought half a dozen young girls and commanded the crone to instruct them in the secrets .
Meereen had been sacked savagely after its fall . The humbler parts of the city had been given over to an orgy of looting and killing . A rich woman came, whose husband and sons had died defending the city walls . Dany granted her jewels but ruled the house was lost when she abandoned it .
Dany had declared a blanket pardon for all crimes committed during the sack . The boy rushed at her, but his feet tangled in his tokar . Strong Belwas was on him at once .
Daenerys was feeling the weight of the crown upon her head, and the hardness of the bench beneath her . She dispatched Jhiqui to the kitchens for a platter of flatbread, olives, figs, and cheese . Dany kicked them off and sat with one foot tucked beneath her and the other swinging back and forth .
Dany turned to Reznak. “How many more?” “One calf and three goats. The rest will be sheep or lambs, no doubt.” “Men make fires. Men cook mutton. Burnt bones prove nothing.” “No, Magnificence.” “Yes” . Drogon especially ranged far afield and could easily devour a sheep a day .
“Her Magnificence the Queen has consented to compensate each of you for the animals you have lost,” he told them in the Ghiscari tongue . “Present yourselves to my factors on the morrow, and you shall be paid in coin or kind, as you prefer.” The pronouncement was received in sullen silence .
"Bones?" he lifted the sack, spilled its contents on the marble . "It was the black one," the man said, in a Ghiscari growl, "the winged shadow. He come down from the sky and ... and ..." No, No, no, oh no. "Are you deaf, fool?" Reznak asked .
“Snow,” the moon called down again, cackling . The white wolf padded along the man trail beneath the icy cliff . It landed on Jon Snow’s chest with a thump and a scrabbling of claws .
Jon wriggled an arm out from under his blankets to shoo the raven off . It was a big bird, old and bold and scruffy, utterly without fear . He filled his fist with a pillow and let fly, but the bird took to the air .
Stannis Baratheon had smashed Mance Rayder’s patchwork host . Many of the prisoners were women, and some guards had been sneaking them out to warm their beds . Men were men, and these were the only women for a thousand leagues .
Maester Aemon had cleaned his wounds, so both die kings . The words had been murmured by one of the queen’s men . Aamon had demurred. “There is power in a king’s blood,” the old maester warned .
Mormont’s raven watched with shrewd black eyes, then fluttered to the window . When Jon folded back the window with its thick diamond-shaped panes of yellow glass, the chill of the morning hit him in the face . It had been the Old Bear’s companion for long years, but that had not stopped it from eating it’s face once he died .
Jon had ridden down the kingsroad almost as far as Queenscrown . He inspected the ruined forts at Queensgate and Oakenshield . From the armory came a clatter of shields and swords, as the latest lot of boys and raw recruits armed themselves .
Iron Emmett’s lads were well at it in the yard, blunted swords slamming into shields and ringing against one another . Horse pulled Hop-Robin to his feet, and the smaller boy made a clumsy bow . It’s too cold for most of them, but only a few .
Castle Black seemed a bleak and forlorn place in the pale dawn light . Behind them rose the Wall: immense, forbidding, frigid, acrawl . Without the stair, there was no way to reach the top of the Wall save by winch .
Jon Snow asked Samwell Tarly to send him a letter . Sam dropped his voice to a whisper . “I am not supposed to speak of it.” “Then don’t.” Jon wondered which bannermen had refused King Stannis homage .
Lady Melisandre was seated near the fire, her ruby glimmering against the pale skin of her throat . Stannis stood behind the rough-hewn table where the Old Bear had once been wont to sit and take his meals . The king wore lambswool breeches and a quilted doublet .
Lady Maege Mormont had ridden south with Robb, Jon knew . She had other daughters, some with children of their own . It is too late for such misgivings. You made your choice .
“I have not forgotten that, my lady. Nor will I.” Stannis crushed Lyanna’s letter in his fist . “Even in the north men fear the wroth of Tywin Lannister. Boltons make bad enemies as well. Do you blame them if they hang back? Forgive me, Your Grace, but some will look at you and see only another doomed pretender.” Lady Melisandre said .
Lord Wyman Manderly's letter from White Harbor had spoken of his age and infirmity . "Perhaps his lordship would fancy a wildling wife," said Lady Melisandre . “I would hope the truth would please you, Sire. Your men call Val a princess, but to the free folk she is like to slit his throat on their wedding night .
You know nothing, Jon Snow, Ygritte used to say, but he had learned . You do not become King-Beyond-the-Wall because your father was.” “Good,” said Stannis, “for I will suffer no other kings in Westeros. Have you signed the grant?” “No, Your Grace.” “We have ceded you the Nightfort.” “The other forts are no better.” “I know that. It makes no matter. They are all
"How can I lose men I do not have? I had hoped to bestow Winterfell on a northman, you may recall. A son of Eddard Stark. He threw my offer in my face." Stannis Baratheon with a grievance was like a mastiff with splinters . "I promise you, that will not happen whilst I live, Lord Snow," Jon said .
“I will not suffer such abominations here. This is not King’s Landing.” “I can find another wet nurse. If there’s none amongst the wildlings, I will send to the mountain clans.” “Poor fare for a prince... but better than whore’s milk, aye.” “Your Grace,” said Jon . “You offer me empty lands and desolations, yet deny me the castles I require to reward my lords
“You are bold enough, Snow, I grant you that, but you’re mad if you think my men will take the black.” The king was unmoved . “Your own Hand is a smuggler. They cannot be expected to serve under poachers, peasants, and murderers.”
The sight of your head on a spike might inspire him to be more helpful . There were mornings when Jon Snow did not believe it himself . The fit feels strange at first, but once you’ve worn them for a while you get to feel comfortable .
Lady Melisandre rose from her place near the hearth . "With your leave, Sire, I will show Lord Snow back to his chambers." "Why? He knows the way," Stannis waved them away .
“I have seen you in my fires, Jon Snow.” “I fear that I make you uneasy, Lord Snow.” Jon did not deny it. “The Wall is no place for a woman.” “You are wrong. I have dreamed of your Wall. Great was the lore that raised it, and great the spells locked beneath its ice. We walk beneath one of the hinges of the world.” “Do not be so certain.” The ruby at Melisandre’s throat gleamed
Bran would wonder, as Hodor clambered up a stony slope, or descended into some dark crevice where drifts of dirty snow cracked beneath his feet . He would think, as the great elk splashed across a half-frozen stream .
A crust of frozen snot had formed below Jojen’s nose, and from time to time he shivered violently . He looked smaller than me now, and weaker too, and I’m the cripple .
Bran felt the pain of the old wound whenever he slipped inside the big wolf’s skin . The gentle giant would whimper when he felt him, and thrash his shaggy head from side to side, but not as violently as he had the first time . Sometimes Bran could sense the direwolf sniffing after the elk, wondering if he could bring the great beast down.
The elk stopped suddenly, and the ranger vaulted lightly from his back to land in knee-deep snow . The direwolf did not like the way that Coldhands smelled. Dead meat, dry blood, a faint whiff of rot. And cold. Cold over all . Every night they heard the mournful howling of the pack .
“You’ll stay. The boy must be protected. There’s a lake ahead, hard frozen. Take refuge there until I can catch up with you.” Bran thought Meera meant to argue until her brother said, “Do as he says. He knows this land.”
He hides his face, and will not speak a name . It’s true. Bran had been afraid to speak of it, but noticed . Sometimes Cold-hands closed his eyes, but there was not a raven to be seen.
The ranger wore the black of the Night’s Watch, but what if he was not a man at all? Crows have wings. My brother grows weaker every day. How long can we go on? Bran lost count of the days, turning the lake into a vast white wilderness .
The elk went where he would, regardless of the wishes of Meera and Jojen on his back . Out there the wind was stronger, a cold north wind that howled across the lake, knifed through their layers of wool and leather, and set them all to shivering . Ahead, shadows began to steal between the trees, the long fingers of the dusk .
The direwolf sped through a drift of old snow, the crust crackling beneath his weight . The next hill was covered with pines, and the sharp scent of their needles filled the air . He turned in a circle, sniffing at the air, then raised his head and howled . It was the smell of burnt wood, soot, and charcoal. A dead fire.
The wolf let his tongue loll out between his teeth, tasting the frigid air . When he trotted toward the scent, Hodor lumbered after him at once . The elk took longer to decide, so Bran returned reluctantly to his own body and said, “That way. Follow Summer. I smelled it.” The village looked no different than a dozen other spots along the lakeshore .
Bran and Jojen and Hodor had a roof above their heads and log walls to keep the wind off . Meera fetched back some chunks of broken ice for them to suck on . The melting water was so cold it made Bran shudder .
The last of the food that they had brought from the south was ten days gone . The woods were full of frozen streams and cold black lakes . Meera was as good a fisher with her three-pronged frog spear with hook and line .
The direwolf had a grizzled white muzzle and a blind eye . Behind him, a younger male showed his fangs as well . A head staring sightlessly up at a moon, cheeks ripped and torn down to bloody bone . The stink of them filled the world. Alive, they had been as many as the fingers on a man’s paw, but now they were none. Dead. Done. Meat. Cloaked and hooded,
The direwolf swung his head from side to side, nostrils flaring, then bared his fangs in a snarl . But the one-eyed wolf answered with a growl and moved to block his advance . The pair rushed together, wolf and direwolf, and there was no more time for thought .
Blood flowed thick and sluggish from the slash across his throat . The wolf lapped at it with his tongue, licked the ragged eyeless ruin of his nose and cheeks, then buried his muzzle in his neck and tore it open .
Coldhands stood beside the door, a raven on his arm, staring at the fire . Hodor was chewing and swallowing, muttering happily under his breath . The ranger killed a pig.
Meera Reed rose, her frog spear in her hand, a chunk of smoking meat impaled upon its tines . "Meera, he’s some dead thing. The monsters cannot pass so long as the Wall stands and the men of the Night’s Watch stay true, that’s what Old Nan used to say. He came to meet us at the Wall, but he could not pass. He sent Sam instead, with that wildling girl."
The litter was suspended between eight mammoth draft horses on heavy leather straps . Four eunuchs paced beside the horses, two to either side, and more were trudging along behind to guard the baggage train . The fastest way to Volantis is by sea .
Tyrion heard the thrum of a crossbow once again, and wondered . The litter swayed side to side, a soothing movement that made him feel as if he were a child being rocked to sleep in his mother’s arms .
A large dragon is more fearsome than a small one,” Tyrion said . “Why should a magister of Pentos give three figs who wears the crown in Westeros? Where is the gain for you in this venture, my lord?” The fat man dabbed grease from his lips .
Viserys lusted for his father’s throne, but he lied for Daenerys too, and was loath to give her up . He popped a roasted lark into his mouth and crunched it noisily, bones and all . "The frightened child who sheltered in my manse died on the Dothraki sea," Tyrion observed .
Tyrion pondered all he knew of Volantis, oldest and proudest of the Nine Free Cities . He pointed at Illyrio, who conspired for the dragon queen, and not against her . The Beggar King swore that I should be his master of coin, and a lord .
Varys spied on lesser thieves and took their takings . In Myr he was a prince of thieves, until a rival thief informed on him . I offered my help to their victims, promising to recover their valuables for a fee .
The older thieves were fools who thought no further than turning a night’s plunder into wine . He chose the smallest, the ones who were quick and quiet, and taught them to climb walls and slip down chimneys . Instead our mice stole letters, ledgers, charts ... later, they would read them .
When he was still a lonely child in Casterly Rock, he oft rode dragons through the nights . When his uncles asked him what gift he wanted for his name-day he begged them for a dragon . But his uncle Tygett said, “The last dragon died a century ago, lad.” That had seemed so unfair that the boy had cried himself to sleep that night .
Tyrion had read about Valyrian roads, but this was the first he had seen . The Freehold’s grasp had reached as far as Dragonstone, but never to the mainland of Westeros itself . His distress must have been plain to Illyrio Mopatis .
Tyrion thought, smiling pleasantly. They changed out teams only thrice that day but seemed to halt twice an hour at the least . The Valyrian roads were wide enough for three wagons to pass abreast, and neither time nor traffic marred them .
Magister Illyrio twisted open a pot of garlic snails, sniffed at them, and smiled . "At Volantis, you will have fresh tidings of Daenerys, we must hope," he said .
The Golden Company was founded a century ago by Bittersteel, a bastard son of Aegon the Unworthy . He formed the Golden Company to bind the exiles together . From that day to this, the men had lived and died in the Disputed Lands .
Illyrio brushed away the objection as if it were a fly . "Ten thousand swords makes for a princely gift, I grant you. Her Grace should be most pleased," Tyrion wished for . Tyrion knew much and more about the gratitude of kings .
Magister Illyrio thrust his right hand up his left sleeve and drew out a silver locket . Inside was a painted likeness of a woman with big blue eyes and pale golden hair streaked by silver .
Magister Illyrio closed the locket. “I keep her hands in my bedchamber. Her hands that were so soft ...” Tyrion thought of Tysha . Tyrion glanced out at the fields where once the gods had walked .
Lord Tywin had always held the Free Cities in contempt . They fight with coins instead of swords, he used to say . "Give gold to a foe and he will just come back for more, my father always said."
Tyrion Lannister dreamed of a battle that turned the hills of Westeros as red as blood . In the dream he had two heads, both noseless. His father led the enemy, so he slew him once again . Then he killed his brother Jaime, hacking at his face until it was a red ruin .
Tyrion slept and woke and slept again, and day and night seemed not to matter . They saw a circle of standing stones that Illyrio claimed had been raised by giants, and later a deep lake . The next evening they came upon a huge Valyrian sphinx crouched beside the road .
Shae’s hands beat at him as golden hands dug into her throat . He did not remember if they’d been warm or not . A chain and a keep are nothing, compared to a woman’s kiss . Tyrion closed his eyes to bring her face to mind .
Quentyn was about to suggest that they try another ship when the master finally made his appearance, with two vile-looking crewmen at his side . In Volantis, with Cletus slain, Gerris had assumed the master’s role .
Gerris Drinkwater had a swagger to him, a confidence bordering on arrogance . He cut a poor figure by comparison— short-legged and stocky, thickly built, with hair the brown of new-turned earth . His forehead was too high, his jaw too square, his nose too broad .
"Wine is our family trade. My father owns extensive vineyards back in Dorne . It is hoped that the good folk of Meereen will welcome what I sell" "The slave cities are at war. Can it be you do not know this?" Gerris admitted .
Quentyn had never seen Braavos, but could believe it . The Volantis covered the mouth of the Rhoyne like a warm wet kiss . Ships were everywhere, coming down the river or headed out to sea .
The Spider had informers everywhere, even in the halls of Sunspear . "What we do is treason, make no mistake. Trust only your companions, and do your best to avoid attracting notice," he said . The captain showed his teeth in something that might have been intended as a smile .
The Volantenes made a cold soup of them, as thick and rich as purple honey . Their wines were sweet as well as their wines were served with almost every meal . "This is a sweet city," said Gerris .
Quentyn was one of the cousin’s slaves, a small man with a wheel tattooed upon one cheek, naked but for a breechclout and a pair of sandals . After he had helped them up onto the cushioned bench between the cart’s two huge wooden wheels, he clambered onto the elephant’s back .
Quentyn's dearest friend for half his life, a brother in all but blood . "Give your bride a kiss for me," Cletus whispered to him, just before he died . The corsairs had come aboard in the darkness before the dawn . It took three Meadowlarks to roll the body into the sea .
Cletus had slapped him on the back and said, "This will be a tale to tell our grandchildren" The Dornishmen had toasted Quentyn’s future bride, made ribald japes about his wedding night to come, and talked about the things they’d see, the deeds they'd do, the glory they would win .
New Ghis and Yunkai were both Ghiscari cities . "We need to find a ship from Westeros," said Quentyn . The Braavosi are descended from escaped slaves .
Quentyn said he'd rather die than set foot on another ship . The big man had been greensick every day of their voyage . They had to take rooms in an inn so Maester Kedry could feed him broths and potions .
Quentyn had been smitten with Ynys, the eldest of Lord Yronwood’s daughters . When first he’d come to the heir to Godsgrace, he nursed his dreams for years . The last time he had seen her, she’d had one boy at her breast and another clinging to her skirts .
Daenerys Targaryen would need Dorne to win the Seven Kingdoms . It does not mean that she will love me, though. She may not even like me . I never asked for this, he thought .
The triarchs are neither kings nor princes. Volantis is a freehold, like Valyria of old. All freeborn landholders share the rule. Even women are allowed to vote, provided they own land.
Quentyn saw cod and sailfish and sardines, barrels of mussels and clams . Another displayed a gigantic turtle, strung up by its legs on iron chains . Some vendors were frying chunks of fish with onions and beets, or peppery fish stew .
Merchant’s House dominated the docks and wharves and storehouses that surrounded it . Here traders from Oldtown and King’s Landing mingled with their counterparts from Braavos and Pentos and Myr . The paving stones felt warm beneath his feet when Quentyn climbed down from the hathay .
The sellswords threw taunts at their backs as they pushed through the doors of the Merchant’s House, mocking them as bloodless cravens and frightened girls . The big man was waiting in their rooms on the second floor . Ser Archibald Yronwood had started calling him the big man .
JON Jon Snow read the letter over until the words began to blur and run together . They chose me to be their lord commander. The Wall is mine, and the Watch as well .
Dolorous Edd went off muttering of worms and spiders . When Gilly entered, she went at once to her knees. Jon came around the table and drew her to her feet . “You don’t need to take a knee for me. That’s just for kings.” Gilly seemed half a child to him .
Gilly shrieked at him, cursed him, damned him down to seven hells . Another woman might have flown at him in rage, slapped him, kicked him and raked at his eyes with her nails . Stannis will not deny her, so she will claim his son for the fire.
"Men say that freezing to death is almost peaceful. Fire, though ... do you see the candle, Gilly?" She looked at the flame. “Touch it. Put your hand over the flame.” Her big brown eyes grew bigger still. “Do it.” Kill the boy. “Now.” Trembling, the girl reached out her hand, held it well above the flickering candle flame . “They’ll burn my babe, then. The red woman. If she can’t have Dalla’s
Samwell Tarly returned to his chair, to read over Maester Aemon’s letter once again . Sam yowled, the bird flapped off, corn scattered . “We all shed our blood for the Watch. Wear thicker gloves.” Sam read it slowly .
Tommen fought his brother Bran with wooden swords . Jon swallowed and turned back to the parchment . “Only to defend the Wall, not in his rebellion. That’s what it says here.” “The distinction may escape Lord Tywin.” Jon snatched the letter back .
Sam hesitated, then said, “The Lannisters have northmen of their own. Lord Bolton and his bastard.” “Stannis has the Karstarks. If not... my lord, even a paper shield is better than none.” “I suppose so.” Him and Aemon both.
The oldest histories we have been written after the Andals came to Westeros . The First Men only left us runes on rocks, so everything we think we know about the Age of Heroes and the Dawn Age and the Long Night comes from accounts set down by septons thousands of years later .
The Others come when it is cold, most of the tales agree . Sometimes they appear during snowstorms and melt away when the skies clear . Some stories speak of them riding corpses of dead animals . The one that killed Small Paul was riding a dead horse .
“I’m going? To Eastwatch, my lord? Or ... where am I ...” “Oldtown?” Sam repeated, in a high-pitched squeak . “Clydas. He’s been with Aemon for years.” “His life will be at risk,” Stannis said .
Sam, the Night’s Watch has hundreds of men who can loose an arrow, but only a handful who can read or write . Maester Aemon is old and blind. His strength is leaving him. Who will take his place when he dies? "I can hit the target more often than not now, but I’m still the worst archer who ever bent a bow"
Aemon Targaryen is not so easily replaced, however. He had assumed Sam would be glad to trade the dangers of the Wall for the warmth of Oldtown . “No. I could read the books, but ... a m-maester must be a healer and b-b-blood makes me faint,” Jon snapped .
You’ve faced more things this past year than most men face in a lifetime . You can face the Citadel, but you’ll face it as a Sworn Brother of the Night’s Watch . Sam fled from him just as Gilly had .
Jon Snow had been up half the night poring over maps, writing letters, and making plans with Maester Aemon . "Allow me to give my lord one last piece of counsel," the old man had said . It takes a man to rule. An Aegon, not an Egg. Kill the boy and let the man be born."
Kedge Whiteye had seen forty-odd namedays, thirty of them on the Wall . His left eye was blind, his right eye mean. There will be eyes along the kingsroad, not all of them friendly . Let Stannis have his secrets. The gods know that I have mine.
Ghost slept fitfully, tossing for hours before sliding down into a nightmare . He ripped the children from her arms and hacked their heads off, then told her to sew them back in place . When he woke, Jon found Edd Tollett looming over him .
Jon had given Black Jack Bulwer command of the escort . The other had a stiff roof of boiled leather to keep the wind off . Maester Aemon was seated in the back of it, huddled in a bearskin that made him look as small as a child .
Gilly gave the babe to Dolorous Edd as she climbed into the wayn and covered herself with furs . When Edd gave her back the child, Gilly put him to her breast . "You do the same for t’other. Find another wet nurse, like you said. You promised me you would. The boy ... Dalla’s boy, I mean ... you find him some good woman, so he grows up big and strong."
Jon Snow glanced up at the Wall, towering over them like a cliff of ice . The strength of the Wall was its height; the length of the wall was its weakness . A wall is only as strong as the men who stand behind it .
Four of the brothers I’m sending with you will be Kingslanders . Keep one eye on that lot and watch for climbers with the other . Three hundred might not be enough to throw them off . It was true that climbers were desperately vulnerable whilst on the ascent .
Raymun Redbeard had been King-Beyond-the-Wall in the days of his grandfather’s grandfather . Jack Musgood had been the lord commander in those days . Red-beard was slain by Artos the Implacable, Lord Willam’s younger brother .
Slynt was captain of the Iron Gate when Manly Stokeworth died . Jon Arryn raised him up and put the defense of King’s Landing into his hands . I want him well away from Alliser Thorne . “Might be that’s so,” Giant said .
The fort is in a sorry state, admittedly. You will restore it as best you can . Start by clearing back the forest. Steal stones from the structures that have collapsed to repair those still standing . You’ll sleep on stone, too exhausted to complain or plot, and soon you’ll forget what it was like to be warm . Slynt’s face had turned the color of a prune .
Ser Alliser Thorne was with him, and several of their cronies . They were laughing about something when Jon came down the steps with Iron Emmett and Dolorous Edd . Three-Finger Hobb was ladling out porridge from his kettle .
Ser Alliser Thorne reached for his sword hilt. Go on, Jon thought. Longclaw was slung across his back . Some had chosen Jon to be their lord commander . Others had cast their stones for Bowen Marsh and Ser Denys Mal-lister .
Dolorous Edd took hold of Slynt by one arm, Iron Emmett by the other . They hauled him from the bench. “No, unhand me. He’s just a boy, a bastard. His father was a traitor. The mark of the beast is on him, that wolf of his ... Let go of me!” Jon said . “If the boy thinks that he can frighten me, he is mistaken,” Val said 
Iron Emmett kicked his legs out from under him . Dolorous Edd planted a foot on his back to keep him on his knees . The pale morning sunlight ran up and down his blade as Jon clasped the hilt .
Tyrion swung his legs through curtains and hopped to the ground to find Magister Illyrio standing by the horses with two riders looming over him . “I need a piss,” the dwarf announced. “He pisses well, at least,” a voice observed. “Did you hear that, Haldon? The little man wants to fight with us!” Tyrion said .
Haldon studied Tyrion with cool grey eyes before turning back to Illyrio . “You have some chests for us?” “And mules to carry them.” “Why is it always Duck who attend to things?” The big man slipped his sword back in its sheath . Tyrion counted six oaken chests with iron hasps .
Haldon glanced at Tyrion. “Does your dwarf ride as well as he pisses?” “He rides,” Tyrion broke in . “I am Haldon, the healer in our little band of brothers. Some call me Halfmaester. My companion is Ser Duck.” “Ser Rolly,” said the big man .
Urrax saw only his own reflection until Serwyn had plunged his spear through his eye . “Even Duck knows that tale. Can you tell me the name of the knight who tried the same ploy with Vhagar.” “I fear that you’re mistaken. In The Dance of the Dragons, A True Telling, Maester Munkun writes——that it was Syrax, Rhaenyra’s she-dragon” .
Duck swung into the saddle, grabbed Tyrion by the collar, and hoisted the little man up in front of him . It took another few moments for Duck to finish securing Illyrio’s chests to the three pack horses .
“I may well piss my breeches.” “Best not,” Duck warned darkly . The Shrouded Lord is just a legend, he told himself, no more real than the ghost of Lann the Clever that some claim haunts Casterly Rock.
The dwarf's sudden silence went unnoticed as Duck began to regale him with his own life story . His father had been an armorer at Bitterbridge, so he had taken to swordplay at an early age . He watched Caswell’s weakling son named a page, a squire, and finally a knight .
Tyrion hopped down to work cramps out of his calves whilst Duck and Haldon were watering the horses . Tyrion found the plain fare a pleasant change from all the rich food he had eaten with Illyrio . “Those chests we brought you,” said Duck, with a shrug .
Lord Tywin had put an end to that hope ten days before his dwarf son’s sixteenth nameday . Tyrion was given charge of all the drains and cisterns within Casterly Rock . The drains never drained half so well as when he had charge of them .
Ghoyan Drohe had never been large, but it had been a fair place, green and flowering, a city of canals and fountains . A thousand years later, the canals were choked with reeds and mud, and pools of stagnant water gave birth to swarms of flies .
Tyrion saw a boy standing on the roof of a low wooden building waving a wide-brimmed straw hat . He was a lithe and well-made youth with a lanky build and a shock of dark blue hair . The dwarf put his age at fifteen, sixteen, or near enough to make no matter .
The roof the boy was standing on turned out to be the cabin of the Shy Maid . She had a broad beam and a shallow draft, ideal for making her way up the smallest of streams and crabwalking over sandbars . A homely maid, thought Tyrion, but sometimes the ugliest ones are the hungriest once abed .
Tyrion turned to Young Griff and gave the lad his most disarming smile . “My mother was a lady of Tyrosh. I dye my hair in memory of her.” “What is this creature?” Griff demanded .
Tyrion knew that much was true . He has supped on hate himself, this one . It has warmed him in the night for years .
Aye, and my way will take me to the bottom of the Rhoyne with fish nibbling at what’s left of my nose . I know which lords are brave and which are craven, which are loyal and venal . You may sleep on the deck or in the hold, as you prefer. Ysilla will find bedding for you.
DAVOS Lightning split the northern sky, etching the black tower of the Night Lamp against the blue-white sky . Six heartbeats later came the thunder, like a distant drum . The guards marched Davos Seaworth across a bridge of black basalt and under an iron portcullis .
Twenty iron sconces were mounted along his thick stone walls, but only four held torches, and none of them was lit . Davos could hear the rain lashing at the walls, and a steady dripping where the roof had sprung a leak .
Lightning flashed outside, making the arrow loops blaze blue and white for half a heartbeat . When it quieted, he listened to the dripping, and the duller roar beneath his feet . He might well end up down there, fettered to a wet stone floor and left to drown .
Davos was a lord himself, and had been a knight for long years . He had bought his knighthood with a hold of onions and salt fish . "Only if Stannis is a King," the king said .
Nine-and-twenty ships had set sail from the Wall . If half of them were still afloat, Davos would be shocked . Black skies, bitter winds, and lashing rains had hounded them all the way down the coast .
Salladhor Saan complained to Davos as the remnants of his fleet limped across the Bite . Salla's only hope was to remain loyal to Stannis Baratheon until he won the Iron Throne .
Lord Godric said the word as fondly as another man might say his lover’s name . “Storms were sacred on the Sisters before the Andals came. Our gods of old were the Lady of the Waves and the Lord of the Skies. They made storms every time they mated.” He turned to his captain. “No, m’lord. Never.” He took his leave, his wet boots leaving damp footprints across the carpet .
The Three Sisters were fickle bitches, loyal only to themselves . Borrell did fealty for Sweetsister, as Longthorpe did for Longsister and Torrent for Littlesister . The lord picked up a wooden spoon and attacked his stew again .
Salladhor Saan had abandoned Stannis Baratheon, leaving him without a fleet . The Lyseni would gladly have taken him south with him, but Davos had refused . “Bah,” the pirate prince replied, “he will kill you with these honors, old friend.” He has no gold .
A guardsman saw Tywin Lannister flee, red from head to heel, as if he’d bathed in blood. The queen will make a lord of any man who kills him.” Davos struggled to believe what he was hearing . “When there were kings on the Sisters, we did not suffer dwarfs to live. We cast them all into the sea, as an offering to the gods. The septons made us stop that. A pack of 
Davos served it in a trencher hollowed out of a stale loaf . It was thick with leeks, carrots, barley, and turnips white and yellow . The same stew was served all over the Three Sisters, in every inn and tavern .
Melisandre had given Alester Florent to her god on Dragonstone, to conjure up the wind that bore them north . Lord Florent had been strong and silent as the queen’s men bound him to the post, as dignified as any half-naked man could hope to be, but as the flames licked up his legs he had begun to scream . It had seemed to him to smell of burning flesh, and the sound of it was anguished as it played amongst
Lord Godric's forebears had been pirate kings until the Starks came down on them with fire and sword . These days the Sistermen left open piracy to Salladhor Saan and his ilk and confined themselves to wrecking . Some Sistermen would use false lights to draw unwary captains to their doom .
Lord Wyman means to bend his knee, and not to Stannis. He took a swallow of his beer . “The Manderlys are no northmen, not down deep. They’d been great lords on the Mander until they overreached themselves . The wolf king took their gold, but he gave them land and let them keep their gods.” He mopped at his stew with a chunk of bread .
Lord Godric said the fat man was so wroth that he took a vow to live on bread and wine till he had his vengeance . But before the day was out, he was stuffing clams and cakes into his mouth again . Lord Wyman and Lord Walder have made a pact, and mean to seal it with a marriage.
Stannis Baratheon had desperate need of White Harbor . If Winterfell was the heart of the north, White Harbor was its mouth . Its firth had remained free of ice even in the depths of winter for centuries .
Because he is your rightful king, Davos thought. He is a strong man and a just one, the only man who can restore the realm and defend it against the peril that gathers in the north . He has a magic sword that glows with the light of the sun . None of them would sway the Lord of Sweetsister .
Jon Arryn sent Stark to the Eyrie for his head, but he sent him back defiance . Gulltown stayed loyal to the throne, though. To get home and call his banners, Stark had to cross the mountains to the Fingers and find a fisherman to carry him across the Bite .
The Giantslayer and his mount were armored in silvered steel inlaid with niello . Mance Rayder wore only a thin tunic that left his limbs naked to the cold . He had told King Stannis that the King-Beyond-the-Wall would be of more use to them alive than dead .
Mance Rayder's thick grey-brown hair blew about his face as he walked . He pushed it from his eyes with bound hands, smiling . But when he saw the cage, his courage failed him . The queen’s men had made it from the trees of the haunted forest .
Wild-lings, the Seven Kingdoms called them; they named themselves the free folk . They looked neither wild nor free—only hungry, frightened, numb . The Lord of Light has seen his children in their peril and sent a champion to them .
Lady Melisandre wore no crown, but every man there knew that she was Stannis Baratheon’s real queen, not the homely woman he had left to shiver at Eastwatch-by-the-Sea . The Wall offered few of the comforts that southron ladies and little highborn girls were used to, and the Night-fort offered none .
Jon had ordered out two hundred men, more than half the garrison of Castle Black . He wanted them to take that fear with them to their new homes south of the Wall . The horn crashed amongst the logs and leaves and kindling . Within three heartbeats the whole pit was aflame .
Ulmer of the Kingswood jammed his spear into the ground, unslung his bow, and slipped a black arrow from his quiver . A woman’s sobs echoed off the Wall as the wildling king slid bonelessly to the floor of his cage, wreathed in fire . “The Lord of Light made the sun and moon and stars to light our way,” Melisandre said . "Your false gods cannot help you. Your false horn did not save you.
Light-bringer was the sun made steel . He slipped Lightbringer into its scabbard, and the world darkened again . His voice rang harsh, with none of Melisandre’s music .
Queen’s men in studded jacks and halfhelms handed each passing man, woman, or child a piece of white weirwood . A piece of the old gods to feed the new, Jon flexed the fingers of his sword hand . The heat from the fire pit was palpable even at a distance; for the wild-lings, it had to be blistering .
Magnar of Thenn was a younger version of his father—lean, balding, clad in bronze greaves and a leather shirt sewn with bronze scales . Next came Rattleshirt in clattering armor made of bones and boiled leather . A small, malicious, treacherous man, as stupid as he is cruel .
Jon had detailed Horse and Satin and half a dozen others to lead them through the Wall with torches . On the far side, bowls of hot onion soup awaited them, and chunks of black bread and sausage . They would sleep on piles of clean straw, with fires blazing to keep the chill of night at bay .
The Watch can make the free folk bleed, but in end we cannot hope to stop them . The tunnel through the Wall was narrow and twisting, and many of the wildlings were old or ill or wounded, so the going was painfully slow . By the time the last of them had bent the knee, night had fallen .
The queen’s men beat the butts of their spears against their shields . The giants were the last to go, two riding on the back of a mammoth, the other two afoot . Only the dead were left behind .
Bowen Marsh says he could agree with that . It will not be difficult to allow tens of thousands of half-starved savages through the Wall . The Wall does the rest. The cold, the weight ... in a moon’s turn, it will be as if no gate had ever been .
Mance Rayder's host had broken against the Wall like a wave upon a stony shore . But what Bowen was suggesting went against all of Jon’s instincts . “If we seal the gates, we cannot send out rangers,” Bowen pointed out .
Jon had known Tyrion Lannister briefly. He took my hand and named me friend . It was hard to believe the little man had it in him to murder his own sire . The Iron Throne has been known to cut grown men to ribbons .
Aye, we hacked their gods apart and made them burn the pieces, but we gave them onion soup . A cup of wine with Maester Aemon, some quiet words with Sam, a few laughs with Pyp and Grenn and Toad.
Pyp stabbed a turnip with his knife at another table . "The night is dark and full of turnips," he announced in a solemn voice . Jon Snow wanted to shake some sense into him. "Waggle your ears all you like."
"My lord, will you sup with us? Owen, shove over and make room for Jon," he said . "Another day, he may need to sit in judgment on them, or send them forth to die" Val stood on the tower roof, gazing up at the Wall . She looked lonely, Jon thought. Lonely, and lovely .
Jon Snow had chosen a black cloak and a wall of ice . Instead he had chosen honor. A bastard’s sort of honor . The Wall loomed on his right as he crossed the yard . Jon could hear the creak of chains as the winch cage swung .
Aemon Targaryen had seen nine kings upon the Iron Throne . Lightbringer was his sword. Tempered with his wife’s blood if Votar can be believed . When Azor Ahai fought a monster, its blood began to boil .
Jon Snow raised the hood of his cloak and pulled at the door . The white wolf followed him back into the night . It took Jon a long while to get the candles lit .
Jon rose and climbed the steps to the narrow bed that had once been Donal Noye’s . It was the black of night outside. Something is wrong, she knew at once . “Is it Daario? What’s happened?” Irri murmured, “it is your eunuch Grey Worm and the bald men. Will you see them?” “Yes.” Her hair was disheveled .
Your servants were set upon as they walked the bricks of Meereen to keep Your Grace’s peace . You were slain by cross-bow bolts in Mazdhan’s Maze . Their servants Eladon Goldenhair and Loyal Spear were poisoned at a wineshop .
The queen flinched. Rylona Rhee had played the harp as sweetly as the Maiden . She had become a leader amongst the Yunkish freedmen, their voice in Dany’s councils .
Daenerys was sick unto death of Zhak and Merreq; she was sick of all the Mereenese, great and small alike . "They will not mind us keeping their gold safe, then. There is nothing to buy in the hills," Reznak said .
Dany kissed her eyelids and made her giggle . The word made Dany’s eyes fill up with tears . She felt as if she could be a child too .
Dany slipped from her arms and stepped out into the predawn air to gaze out across the city . A thousand roofs stretched out below her, painted in shades of ivory and silver by the moon . Somewhere down there a hungry child was crying for milk . But up here there was only the sheen of moonlight on pyramids and pits, with no hint what lay beneath . I am jealous of a sword hilt, she had realized, of women made of gold .
"I dreamt of you on Balerion, when first we came to Astapor," she pinched her ear and winced at the pain . "What if Daario has betrayed me and gone over to my enemies?" "I came another way. Your guards never saw me." "Are you here?" "What are you doing here?"
"No. Hear me, Daenerys Targaryen. The glass candles are burning. Soon comes the pale mare, and after her the others. Remember the Undying. Beware the perfumed seneschal?" Dany rose from the pool. Water trickled down her legs, and gooseflesh covered her arms in the cool night air .
Dany went all the way around the pyramid in hopes of finding Quaithe . But the only sound was the wind in the fruit trees, and the only creatures in the gardens were a few pale moths . When Reznak and Skahaz appeared, she found herself looking at them askance .
Reznak was fighting off a yawn as she prattled about the craftsmen’s guilds . Some former slaves were carving stone and laying bricks, stealing work from guild journeymen and masters alike . "The freedmen work too cheaply because they are hungry," Dany said .
The Green Grace said that reopening the pits would please the gods . The Shavepate felt it would win her support against the Sons of the Harpy . It was blood the Meereenese yearned to see, not skill .
“You are no longer slaves, doomed to die at a master’s whim. I freed you. Why should you wish to end your lives upon the scarlet sands?” said Goghor . The Spotted Cat wore a leopard skin across one shoulder . “Hizdahr swears that the winners shall share half of the coin collected at the gates,” said Khrazz .
Ser Barristan escorted her back up to her chambers . “Tell me how you escaped from the Usurper.” “Your Grace. There is no valor in running for your life.” Dany said as they climbed .
I walked from the throne room with my head high, though I did not know where I was going . I was gathering my things when it came to me that I had brought this on myself by taking Robert’s pardon . When I reached the stables the gold cloaks tried to seize me . The commander of the City Watch himself confronted me, emboldened by my empty scabbard .
King’s Landing was crowded with smallfolk who’d come seeking refuge from the fighting . I lost myself amongst them, with dirt on my face, stubble on my cheeks, and no weapon but a wooden staff . “Your Grace,” said Selmy, “Have you forgotten Princess Rhaenys and Prince Aegon?” “That was Lannister work, Your Grace.”
A flicker of disapproval crossed the old man’s face, but it was not his way to question his queen . The servants’ steps were the quickest way down—not grand, but steep and straight and narrow, hidden in the walls . At ground level the Great Pyramid of Meereen was a hushed place, full of dust and shadows . They passed beneath three massive arches, down a torchlit ramp into the vaults beneath the pyramid .
The Great Masters had used the pit as a prison . It was large enough to hold five hundred men ... and more than ample for two dragons . What will happen when they grow too large for the pit?
Viserys had told her all the tales when she was little . She knew how Harrenhal had fallen . One of her forebears, the third Aegon, had seen his own mother devoured by his uncle’s dragon . There were songs beyond count of villages and kingdoms that lived in dread of dragons .
The Shavepate had urged her to put the man to death . “At least rip out his tongue. This man’s lie could destroy us all, Magnificence.” Instead Dany chose to pay the blood price . She set it at one hundred times the worth of a lamb .
Drogon hunted far afield, but when he was sated he liked to bask in the sun at the apex of the Great Pyramid . Two score of her bravest had risked themselves trying to capture him . The black dragon had been flying north across the Skahazadhan toward the tall grasses of the Dothraki sea . He had not returned, and four of them had died .
The rat squealed as he bit into it, squirming wildly in his hands, frantic to escape . By the third bite the rat had ceased to struggle, and he was feeling almost content . At once he stilled, fearing even to chew. He listened in terror, stiff as stone, to the scuff of boots and the clanking of iron keys .
Blood ran from corners of his mouth as he nibbled at the rat with what remained of his teeth . The meat was stringy, but so rich he thought he might be sick . It hurt to chew, but he was so hungry he could not stop .
“This is the last cell on the left, isn’t it?” A boy replied. “I don’t think he likes the light.” “Would you, if you looked like that?” The second boy laughed. “He’s been eating rats,” said the second boy. “That’s funny.” The boys moved closer, the straw crunching softly under their feet . “Talk to me. Tell me your name.” My name. A scream caught in his throat. It had been so
"Your name is Reek. Remember?" Little Walder whispered through cracked lips . "You’re to come with us," Big Walder said . He could overcome two boys of eight, surely .
The gaoler was dead drunk in a puddle of wine, with his breeches down around his ankles . They waited for the moon to go behind a cloud, then slipped from the castle and splashed across the Weeping Water, stumbling over stones . Lord Ramsay loved the chase and preferred to hunt two-legged prey . All night they ran through the darkling wood, but as the sun came up the sound of a distant horn came faintly through
Reek remembered the desperate, frightened look in Kyra’s eyes . She had never looked so young as she did in that moment, still half a girl, but there was nothing he could do . The memory made it hard to breathe .
Little Walder pulled him up and Big Walder waved the torch at him to herd him . If he’d had a tail, the Bastard would have cut it off . The thought came unbidden, a vile thought, dangerous . His lordship was not a bastard anymore. Bolton, not Snow .
The world smells like. He did not know how long he had been down there in the dungeons, but it had to have been half a year at least . It could not have been so long. The boys were still boys. If it had been ten years, they would have grown into men. He must not let him drive me mad. He can take my fingers and my toes, he can put out my eyes and slice my ears off, but he cannot take my wits unless
The great hall was dim and smoky, grasped by skeletal human hands jutting from the walls . High overhead were wooden rafters black from smoke, and a vaulted ceiling lost in shadow . The best places, up near the dais, were occupied by Ramsay’s favorites .
Bastard of Bolton sat in his lord father's seat, drinking from his father’s cup . One was gaunt, with flinty eyes, a long white beard, and a face as hard as a winter frost . Underneath he wore a ringmail byrnie, even at table .
Reek smells of the grave, though, I grant you that.” The stoop-shouldered old lord tossed aside the bone that he’d been gnawing on and wiped his fingers on the tablecloth . “His hair’s gone white and he is three stone thinner, aye, but this is no serving man,” Lord Ramsay said .
Lord Ramsay had learned the rules, as his hands and feet could testify, but that one time he had forgotten and tried to end the pain himself, with his teeth . “I ate a rat,” he mumbled. “A rat?” Ramsay’s pale eyes glittered in the torchlight .
Reek had lost two fingers off his left hand and the pinky off his right foot against three from his left foot . His lord was merciful and kind. He might have flayed his face off for some of the things he had said, before he’d learned his true name and proper place .
BRAN Something about the way the raven screamed sent a shiver running up Bran’s spine . The air was sharp and cold and full of fear . Even Summer was afraid. The fur on his neck was bristling .
“We have to climb. It will be dark soon. You would do well to be inside before night comes. Your warmth will draw them.” Meera glanced to the west, where the light of the setting sun could be seen dimly through the trees . Not even Hodor could climb down into a sinkhole with Bran heavy on his back, and Jojen could no more walk a thousand .
All of them were cold and wet and hungry, except the ranger, and Jojen Reed was too weak to walk unaided . Meera Reed bent down beside her brother, but breath still puffed faintly from his nostrils whenever he exhaled .
Coldhands had knelt beside the elk in the snowbank and murmured a blessing in some strange tongue as he slit its throat . He had never felt more like a cripple than he did then, watching helplessly as Meera Reed watched helplessly . In the end he’d eaten twice, once in his own skin and once in Summer’s .
Winter stopped suddenly, at the bottom of a steep stretch of unbroken white snow . The direwolf turned his head, sniffed the air, then snarled . “Hodor, no, go back.” Something was wrong .
Coldhands was still climbing, and Hodor wanted to keep up . The snow Hodor disturbed slid downhill, starting a small avalanche behind them . Sixty yards. Bran craned himself sideways to better see the cave .
Snow filled Bran’s mouth and nose as they rolled over . Something slammed against his head, a rock or chunk of ice or a dead man’s fist . All around him, wights were rising from beneath the snow . Three of them descended on the ranger .
Summer flung the arm aside, twisted, and sank his teeth into the dead man’s neck under the chin . When the big grey wolf wrenched free, he took most of the creature’s throat out in an explosion of pale rotten meat . If he could drag himself fifty yards, they could not get him .
Bran ripped Hodor’s longsword from his belt . It went to one knee, began to rise again . He raised the sword and brought it down upon the dead man . This time he took the wight’s head off at the neck .
Summer was trying to drive the thing away from him. What will happen if it kills me? The world moved dizzily around him. White trees, black sky, red flames, everything was whirling, shifting, spinning . He could hear Hodor screaming, “Hodor hodor . Hodor ... madly, for a moment he knew his little sister was a thousand leagues away, or dead,” and yet there she was dragging, wild, her hair atangle . The burning
Meera Reed cradled Jojen’s head in her lap, clutching her torch . "Fire burns them. Fire is always hungry," Bran said . It was a girl, but smaller than Arya, her skin dappled like a doe’s beneath a cloak of leaves . She’s a child. A child of the forest," Bran asked .
"The First Men named us children," the little woman said . "The giants called us woh dak nag gran, the squirrel people, because we were small and quick and fond of trees, but we are no squirrels, no children." "Do you have a name?" asked Bran. "When I am needing one."
Bran hunched down as best he could, but even so, the top of his head was soon scraping and bumping against the ceiling . Loose dirt crumbled at each touch and dribbled down into his eyes and hair, and once he smacked his brow on a thick white root growing from the tunnel wall . The child went in front with the torch in hand, her cloak of leaves whispering behind her, but the passage turned so much that Hodor soon
Hodor plunged ahead, hurrying after the child and her torch, deeper into the earth . From time to time she stopped and waved her torch at them impatiently . There were more side passages after that, more chambers, and Bran heard dripping water somewhere to his right .
The roots had grown in and around and through them, every one . A few had ravens perched atop them, watching them pass with bright black eyes . The last part of their dark journey was the steepest .
A three-eyed crow should have three eyes. He has only one, and that one red . The clothes he wore were rotten and faded, spotted with moss and eaten through with worms, but once they were black .
TYRION For a long while he did not stir, but lay unmoving upon the heap of old sacks that served him for a bed, listening to the wind in the lines, to the lapping of the river at the hull . A full moon floated above the mast, watching me like some great eye . The dwarf sat up, cradling his head in his hands .
Tyrion pulled on his boots and descended to the afterdeck, where Griff sat wrapped in a wolf-skin cloak beside an iron brazier . The Shy Maid would continue downstream by night as well as day, but Yandry and Ysilla refused to risk their poleboat in the dark .
Tyrion had drunk himself blind his first night on the Shy Maid . The next day he woke with dragons fighting in his skull . “Wine helps me sleep,” Tyrion replied implacable . To the east, the first pale light of day suffused the sky above the river .
Septa Lemore had stretch marks on her belly that could only have come from childbirth . She fed wood chips to the brazier on the afterdeck, stirred the coals with a blackened blade, and began to knead the dough for the morning biscuits . It made him feel as if he was still alive.
During the day they would swim down deep, or hide in cuts along the banks . Some liked to swim beside the boat, but when the sun was newly risen they came to the surface . Yandry swore the Rhoynar princes used to ride them across the river .
Yandry pulled up the anchor, slid one of the long poles off the cabin roof, and pushed them off . Slowly the boat began to move downstream . Tyrion snatched a biscuit off the brazier, darting away just in time to avoid a smack from her wooden spoon .
The lad was shorter than Duck, but his lanky build suggested that he had not yet come into his full growth . Tyrion pulled apart two honeyed biscuits, filled them with bacon, and carried one to Yandry at the tiller . The Shy Maid was a sweet boat. She could work her way up even the smallest of the river’s vassal streams .
Duck punched Young Griff in the shoulder . “Swords will be sweet.” Tyrion helped him dress for the bout, in heavy breeches . Ser Rolly shrugged into his mail and boiled leather .
Ser Rolly grabbed Tyrion by the collar, chucking him headlong into the Rhoyne . The dwarf laughed last; he could paddle passably well, and did ... until his legs began to cramp . “You are not the first to try and drown me,” he told Duck .
Septa Lemore slit each garment apart, then sewn them back together to fashion a crude motley . Lemore was always pleasant company, despite her penchant for scolding him whenever he said something rude about the gods.
Tyrion had read much and more of dragons through the years . The greater part of those accounts were idle tales and could not be relied on . Even the Citadel’s lacked twenty-seven scrolls . They must have a library in Old Volantis, surely.
Tyrion took a mordant pleasure in inventing the details of the colorful life of Hugor Hill, a bastard out of Lannisport . The dwarf knew he sounded like a westerman, and a highborn wester man at that time, so Hugor must needs be some lordling’s by-blow .
The Halfmaester always defeated him, but it was a way to pass the time . There were four cabins on the Shy Maid. Yandry and Ysilla shared one, Griff and Young Griff another. Septa Lemore had a cabin to herself, as did Haldon .
Volantis is the oldest of the Nine Free Cities, first daughter of Valyria . It pleased the Volantenes to consider themselves the heirs of the Freehold . The Old Blood favored the sword while the merchants and moneylenders advocated trade .
The tigers suffered other defeats as well . The fleet they sent to reclaim Valyria vanished in the Smoking Sea . It was then that Volantis found herself broken, bankrupt and depopulated .
Half the lords in Westeros are not so learned, sad to say. Languages, history, songs, sums ... a heady stew for some sellsword’s son. A book can be as dangerous as a sword in the right hands,” said Haldon . “You play cyvasse as badly as you tumble,” said Tyrion .
The Halfmaester moved his light horse toward Haldon’s mountains . Tyrion stretched a hand out for his dragon . It was three hours later when the little man crept back up on deck to empty his bladder .
I am sorry that I let them rape you, love. I want to go back to our cottage, to the way it was when we were man and wife . Tyrion saw ruins rising along the eastern bank: crooked walls and fallen towers, broken domes and rows of rotted wooden pillars .
"No river in the Seven Kingdoms is half so wide as this," said Yandry . The new river that had joined them was a close twin to the one they had been sailing down . At Dagger Lake the Qhoyne comes rushing in, the Darkling Daughter .
DAVOS The Merry Midwife stole into White Harbor on the evening tide, her patched sail rippling with every gust of wind . She was an old cog, and even in her youth no one had ever called her pretty . It raised its head and bellowed, a deep-throated roar louder than any warhorn that Tyrion had ever heard .
Davos Seaworth would arrive aboard Salla’s galleas Valyrian . The Lyseni loved bright hues, and Salladhor Saan was the most colorful of all . It was more prudent to play the common sailor, not the lord .
Oldtown was as flowery as a perfumed dowager . White Harbor was a milkmaid, fresh and earthy, with woodsmoke in her hair .
Davos could see scorpions and spitfires behind the standing stones . The Blind Bastard always made him count them whenever the Cobblecat set sail from White Harbor . There were no seals now. The smoke and the soldiers had frightened them away . A wiser man would see a caution in that .
Cotter Pyke told Davos that Lord Wyman was building war galleys . There could have been a score of ships concealed behind those walls, waiting only a command to put to sea . Behind the city’s white walls, the New Castle rose proud and pale upon its hill .
The Merry Midwife tied up to the end of a weathered wooden pier in the outer harbor, well away from Lionstar . Casso Mogat was a mongrel of the narrow sea, fathered on a Sisterton whore by an Ibbenese whaler . He saw three river runners too, long lean boats built tough to brave swift currents and rocky shoots of the White Knife .
Davos had found that lords liked to keep you waiting . They did it to make you anxious, he suspected, and to demonstrate their power . "If things go well, I could be back by the morrow." "You need not wait for me."
The Brave Magister was taking on some mead . Behind one stack he glimpsed three sailors throwing dice . A boy was beating time on a drum as a shabby old bear danced in a circle .
Davos traded a halfpenny for an apple in the Old Mint . "Some beg. Some steal. Lots o’ young girls taking up the trade, the way girls always do when it’s all they got to sell," the apple seller shrugged . “I heard his daughter was to wed some Frey.” “His granddaughter. I heard that too, but his lordship forgot t’ invite me to the wedding. Here, you going to finish that? I’ll take
Old Fishfoot’s trident pointed was an alley where they sold fried cod, crisp and golden brown outside and flaky white within . Over there was a brothel, cleaner than most, where a sailor could enjoy a woman without fear of being robbed or killed . It was wine he wanted, though—sour, dark, and dismal . Back in his smuggling days, the Lazy Eel had been renowned for offering the oldest who
Davos Seaworth was a simple man raised up by chance and war and Stannis . He did not understand why the gods would take four lads as young and strong as his sons, yet spare their weary father . But by now King Robert’s bastard boy was safe in the Stepstones ... but by now he remained .
Seamen were the worst gossips in the world when the wine was flowing, even wine as cheap as this . Most of what he’d learned in Sisterton was from Lord Godric or the denizens of the Belly of the Whale . Tywin Lannister was dead, butchered by his dwarf son; the Lady of the Eyrie had been murdered by a singer; Littlefinger ruled the Vale now; Bronze Yohn Royce had sworn to bring him down; Sand
Robett Glover had turned a deaf ear to his pleas . White Harbor was weary of war, he was reported to have said . The Ryswells and the Dustins had surprised the ironmen on the Fever River .
Davos had known that Lord Wyman had two sons, but he’d thought both were dead . He knew he would do whatever gods or men required of him to protect the other three . Steffon and Stannis were thousands of leagues from the fighting .
“I rowed on a ship named for her once. The Princess Daena.” “If she was a king’s wife, she’d be a queen.” “Don’t mean he never bedded her, is all.” “Daenela,” the proprietor said loudly . “She was named for the Daenerys who wed the Prince of Dorne during the reign of Daeron the Second. I don’t know what became of her.” “I do,” said
Davos had dreamed of making such voyages himself, but the years went dancing by like moths around a flame, and somehow the time had never been quite right . One day when the war is done and King Stannis sits the Iron Throne and has no more need of onion knights . We’ll see these dragons and all the wonders of the world .
Ser Axell Florent entertained the table with the tale of a Targaryen princeling who kept an ape as a pet . The queen’s men laughed, and several grinned at Davos . He gazed up at Old Fishfoot with his broken trident .
DAENERYS The dancers shimmered, their sleek shaved bodies covered with a fine sheen of oil . Whenever two torches crossed in the air, a naked girl leapt between them, spinning . Arousal was arousing, though Daenerys Targaryen found it comical .
The Shavepate’s ugly, oily face was as stern as ever, but he missed nothing . The pale, lean, hawk-faced man who shared her high table was resplendent in robes of maroon silk and cloth-of-gold, his bald head shining in the torchlight as he devoured a fig with small, precise, elegant bites .
Dany watched as the women arched their backs and slid them down onto their members . This was the first time she had seen lust put to music, though . Her face was warm. The wine, she told herself. But somehow she found herself thinking of Daario Naharis .
Daenerys held out her cup for Irri to refill . Xaro perused the fruits on the platter Jhiqui offered him and chose a persimmon . Its orange skin matched the color of the coral in his nose .
Meereen and her sister cities Yunkai and Astapor had been the linchpins of the slave trade . Without slaves, Meeren had little to offer traders . Copper was plentiful in the Ghiscari hills, but the metal was not as valuable as it had been when bronze ruled the world .
The Sons of the Harpy had promised grisly death to any traitor who dared serve the dragon queen, so the Shavepate’s men went about as jackals, owls, and other beasts, keeping their true faces hidden . Dany could play as well.
Qarth wished me gone, and all the pleasures of the Queen of Cities have been as ashes in my mouth . You should have taken me to husband. You gave up too easily, my lord. For I must marry, all agree.” Irri replied .
Dany threw an apricot at him and took a bite . "I want no slave. I free you." Xaro wiped away his tear . He was a beggar queen .
Qarth sits above the rest of mankind as you sit at the summit of this pyramid . But below, in place of bricks, the magnificence rests upon the backs of slaves . Ask yourself, if all men must grub in the dirt for food, how shall any man lift his eyes to contemplate the stars?
Dany slapped her to buy him as a slave and take him back to Qarth . He was warm in Qarth until the day he had no more use for me . She rose to her feet, and Xaro followed her through the pillars .
Meereen has salt to sell, and wine ..." "Ghiscari wine?" Xaro made a sour face . Olives had been grown along the shores of Slaver’s Bay for centuries . "Meereen is a free city of free men"
Qarth wants no khalasars seething round our walls . A horse has an honest smell. That is more than can be said of some great lords and merchant princes . The Butcher King has fled back to his palace, his new Unsullied running at his heels .
Daenerys had sent missions to Tolos and Mantarys, hoping to balance the enmity of Yunkai to the south . "Meereen has made alliance with Lhazar," he said . The Wise Masters should follow their example .
I saw a slaver’s eyes melt and go running down his cheeks . “To bring a gift, for the queen of my heart.” “Say on.” What trap is this, now? “The gift you begged of me in Qarth. Ships. There are thirteen galleys in the bay. Yours, if you will have them.” A fleet. It was more than she could hope for .
Dany rose on her toes and kissed his cheek . He touched her bare breast lightly, and whispered, “Let me stay and help persuade you.” Dany slipped from his arms .
Dany wondered how many men thirteen galleys could hold . It had taken three to carry her and her khalasar from Qarth to Astapor . She had acquired eight thousand Unsullied, a thousand sellswords, and a vast horde of freedmen .
Ser Barristan cleared his throat and said, “This warlock that the merchant spoke of ...” “Pyat Pree.” She tried to recall his face, but all she could see were his lips . Drogon saved me when they would have drained my life from me . Dany woke as full of hope as she had been since first she came to Slaver’s Bay .
“Thirty would be better,” Daenerys agreed . “The poison water is accursed, Khaleesi,” Irri said . "I do not intend to drink it,” Dany promised them .
Admiral Groleo and Ser Barristan returned from their inspection of the galleys . Grey Worm was there for the Unsullied, Skahaz mo Kandaq for the Brazen Beasts and a wizened jaqqa rhan called Rommo . Her freedmen were represented by the captains of the companies she had formed .
The Narraqqa could stand a new rudder and lines, and the Banded Lizard has some cracked oars . The rowers are slaves, but most will stay with us . "Then it is true. Your Worship means to abandon us," he grumbled Skahaz Shavepate . “Wherever the Mother of Dragons goes, the Mother’s Men will go as well,” said Marselen .
Grey Worm: “The ships could keep pace and resupply the column.” “That might serve until you reached the ruins of Bhorash,” said the Shavepate. “The demon road, they call it now,” said Mollono Yos Dob . “Many and more of us would die,” moaned Reznak .
Four Qartheen sailors accompanied him, bearing a rolled tapestry upon their shoulders . "I have brought another gift for the queen of my heart," Xaro announced . Valyria is not yet an island.
“What are you saying? Are you telling me you will not go?” “I cannot go.” Tears welled from his eyes, creeping down his nose . “I told the Thirteen that you would heed my wisdom. It grieves me to learn that I was wrong. Take these ships and sail away, or you will surely die screaming. You cannot know how many enemies you have made,” Xaro said .
All of Castle Black was connected underground by a maze of tunnels called the wormways . It was dark and gloomy underneath the earth, so the tunnels became the quickest way to move about the castle . Bowen Marsh saw candles burning in several wall niches as they made their way along the tunnel .
Wick Whittlestick wore the keys on a ring about his neck . In the granaries were oats and wheat and barley, and barrels of coarse ground flour . There were casks of salt beef, salt pork, salt mutton, and salt cod .
Bowen Marsh sounded gloomier than Dolorous Edd . The meat won’t spoil in the cold. For long storage, it’s better than salting .
Three more turned up yesterday at the gates, a dozen the day before . It cannot go on. Settling them on the Gift, that’s well and good, but it is too late to plant crops . We’ll be down to turnips and pease porridge before the year is out .
The Vale of Arryn was famously fertile and had gone untouched during the fighting . Jon wondered how Lady Catelyn’s sister would feel about feeding Ned Stark’s bastard . You would close our gates forever and seal them up with stone and ice .
“We cannot leave King Stannis and his men to starve, even if we wished to,” Jon said . “How, my lord?” asked Bowen Marsh. “We will find a way.” By the time they returned to the surface, the shadows of the afternoon were growing long . Devan was a skinny lad of some twelve years, brown of hair and eye .
The wrong-way rangers were amongst them . In the King’s Tower, Jon was stripped of his weapons and admitted to the royal presence . It struck Jon as odd that there were no king’s men about the king .
Rattleshirt tapped the ruby on his wrist . Melisandre spoke softly in a strange tongue . The ruby at her throat throbbed slowly . "I’ll range for you, bastard," the red priestess said .
A crow once took him for dead and pecked out his eye . He caught the bird in his fist and bit its head off . When Mors was young he was a fearsome fighter . His only daughter was carried off by wildlings thirty years ago .
The Ryswells and Dustins are tied to House Bolton by marriage . Crowfood is no lapdog, though. Your Grace would do well to accept his terms .
Ser Justin Massey, a loose-limbed, fleshy knight with a ready smile and a mop of flaxen hair . “Be quiet,” Stannis snapped. “Lord Snow, attend me. I have lingered here in the hopes that the wildlings would be fool enough to mount another attack upon the Wall.” “I see.” Jon’s tone was wary. What does he want of me?
The Bastard of Bolton has gone south, taking Hother Umber with him . It can only mean a strike at Moat Cailin, to open the way for his lord father to return to the north . When he does he will find that his castle, herds, and harvest all belong to me .
"Only if he abandons his siege of Moat Cailin," said Jon . "You assume Moat cailin will fall quickly, Snow," objected Justin Massey .
Dreadfort is a strong castle, all of stone, with thick walls and massive towers . It took Harlon Stark two years to starve them out . You Grace would need siege engines, towers, battering rams, Stannis said .
The free folk have been raiding the Umbers since the Dawn of Days, crossing the Bay of Seals for gold and sheep and women . If Stannis placed the free folk in the van, most would perish quickly .
Clayton Suggs drained his cup dry and muttered something to Harwood Fell . At the door, he gave Jon a mocking bow, grinning through a mouthful of brown and broken teeth . Massey wants the wildling princess too.
Horpe and Massey are doomed to disappointment . "Your sword is sworn to the Night’s Watch." Stannis looked disgusted. "My father was a stubborn man as well. Honor, he called it. Well, honor has its costs, as Lord Eddard learned to his sorrow .
Arnolf Karstark writes that the storms have been fierce upon the narrow sea . I must consider White Harbor lost to me . Without a son of Winterfell to stand beside me, I can only hope to win the north by battle . Stannis would take the Dreadfort or die in the attempt .
Men have lived in the high valleys and mountain meadows for thousands of years . Clan champions fight with huge two-handed greatswords . Common men sling stones and batter one another with staffs of mountain ash .
The clans have not seen a king since Torrhen Stark bent his knee . Your coming does them honor. Command them to fight for you, and they will look at one another and say, ‘Who is this man? He is no king of mine’. The Wulls fish the Bay of Ice and warn their little ones that ironmen will carry them off if they don’t behave .
Jon Snow said he never ate half so well as when visiting the clans . "My lady, fair warning. The old gods are strong in those mountains. The clansmen will not suffer insults to their heart trees," the king said .
The mists muffled the sound of her voice, making it seem small and hushed . From time to time he touched his sword, as if to make certain that it still hung at his side . “I do not like this place,” mocked Tyrion, though in truth there was quite a lot of fog .
Ysilla is not wrong. This fog is not natural . Something foul grew in the waters here, and festered in the air . Haldon Halfmaester wrapped a scarf around his mouth and nose .
Garin’s Curse is only greyscale, said Tyrion . The afflicted flesh stiffened, calcified, and cracked, though the dwarf had read that greyscale’s progress could be stayed by limes, mustard poultices, and scalding-hot baths . Maesters and sep-tons agreed that children marked by greyscale could never be touched by the rarer mortal form of the disease .
“We are made of blood and bone, in the image of the Father and the Mother,” said Septa Lemore . “Make no vainglorious boasts, I beg you. Pride is a grievous sin. The stone men were proud as well,” said Tyrion .
Yandry and Duck leaned upon their poles and paced slowly from prow to stern . They passed a marble stair that spiraled up from the mud and ended jaggedly in air . Beyond, half-seen were other shapes: shattered spires, headless statues, trees with roots bigger than their boat .
Illyrio has paid Triarch Nyessos enough to own him eight times over . It seemed to him that elephants and tigers might have good reason to make common cause when faced with dragons . I hate this fog, and I am less than fond of Griff .
A wooden keep could be seen beside the water, rotted and overgrown . Roofless towers appeared and disappeared, thrusting blindly upward . The grey moss grew thickly here, covering the fallen stones in great mounds .
The ruin was sad enough, but knowing what it had been made it even sadder . There were gardens bright with flowers and fountains sparkling golden in the sun . The steps once rang to the sound of lovers’ footsteps, and beneath that broken dome marriages beyond count were sealed with a kiss . It was Jaime, he thought, despairing .
Stone eyes are blind eyes, thought Tyrion . The mortal form of greyscale began in the extremities . He knew that there were three good cures for greyscale .
Pale stone arches marched off into the fog, reaching from the Palace of Sorrow to the river’s western bank . Half of them had collapsed, pulled down by the weight of the grey moss that draped them and the thick black vines that snaked upward from the water . The broad wooden span had rotted through, but some of the lamps that lined the way were still aglow .
“You, though ... you are everything.” Tyrion said scornfully . “I warned you—” A wail came shivering through the fog, faint and high . The broken bridge was a bare five yards ahead .
"You’re Young Griff, son of Griff the sellsword," said Tyrion . "Leave off," Griff commanded, “or you will wish you had.” The dwarf ignored him . The tale of how you color it in honor of your dead Tyroshi mother was so touching it almost made me cry .
Tyrion was born Tyrion of House Lannister, true-born son of Tywin and Joanna, both of whom I slew . The dwarf sniggered. “You should thank the gods that Varys the Spider is a part of this plot of yours.” “Be quiet.” Tyrion wondered .
The Shy Maid moved with the current. Her sail had not been raised since she first entered the Sorrows . Yandry stopped pushing. Every eye was on the distant light .
Yandry and Duck had come up with their poles. Together they forced the creature over the side and into the black waters of the Rhoyne . By then the Shy Maid had drifted out from under the broken bridge . The dwarf turned, and there he stood .
Tyrion kicked the lad’s leg out from under him and leapt over him when he fell . The dwarf waddled after him, slashing with the torch, jabbing it at the stone man’s eyes. A little farther. Back, one more step, another. The stone man flung the torch away. There was a soft hiss as the black waters quenched the flames .
Davos was the head of the merling king, with a crown of mother-of-pearl and a jutting beard of jet and jade . The knight wore silver armor, his greaves and gauntlet inlaid with niello to suggest flowing fronds of seaweed . His own beard was as grey as the winter sea .
Lord Manderly’s household guard wore cloaks of blue-green wool and carried silver tridents in place of common spears . They walked past faded banners, broken shields, and rusted swords of a hundred ancient victories and a score of wooden figures, cracked and worm-riddled, that could only have adorned the prows of ships . A herald slammed the butt of his staff against an old plank floor .
Davos had never set foot inside the New Castle, much less the Merman’s Court . Its walls and ceiling were made of wooden planks notched cunningly together . He trod on painted crabs and clams and starfish, half-hidden amongst twisting black fronds of seaweed and the bones of drowned sailors .
Wyman Manderly sagged into his seat, his shoulders slumped, his legs splayed and his hands resting on the arms of his throne as if the weight of them were too much to bear . On a cushioned stool at his feet perched a plump pink lady . Behind Lord Wyman stood a maester nigh as fat as the lord he served .
Stannis did not like the answer his ravens brought him, so he has sent this smuggler . He squinted at Davos through eyes half-buried in rolls of fat . “I paid for my smuggling at Storm’s End, my lord,” said the woman on the stool.
Lord Wyman blinked back tears. “Wendel was always a brave boy. I was not surprised to learn he died a hero.” The enormity of the lie made Davos gasp .
"I shall want a reckoning with this onion lord before he leaves this city," Lord Wyman said . "The Iron Throne shall have no cause to doubt us," Lord Davos misliked the sound of that, but had not come all this way to hold his tongue .
Four Freys started forward until Lord Wyman halted them with an upraised hand . “Can you offer any proof of this incest, ser?” Maester Theomore asked, folding his soft hands atop his belly .
Lady Leona asked Lord Wyman to condemn his son to death . “Another lie,” said Lady Leone from her stool . "Robb Stark came to save the realm, my lord,” she said .
Lady Leona prayed no one would ask him to explain about the sept at Dragonstone or the godswood at Storm’s End . “The Seven defend White Harbor,” Lady Leone declared. “We do not fear your red queen or her god. Let her send what spells she will. The prayers of godly men will shield us against evil.” “Indeed.” Lord Tywin offered White Harbor full pardon .
Ser Marlon turned to Davos. “Your lordship asked the onion knight what Stannis offers us. Let me answer. He offers us defeat and death. He would have you mount a horse of air and give battle with a sword of wind.” “Arnolf Karstark has vowed to join His Grace.”
Davos felt stab of despair. His Grace should have sent another man, a lord or knight or maester, who could speak for him without tripping on his own tongue . The Lannisters stole the throne. Go to King’s Landing and look on Tommen with your own eyes, if you doubt me .
Lord Wyman sworn in the Wolf’s Den before the old gods and the new . When we were sore beset and friendless, the wolves took us in and nourished us . In return we swore that we should always be their men. Stark men!” Another Frey spoke up .
Rhaegar Frey was thirty, or nigh unto, round-shouldered and kettle-bellied . His cloak was cloth-of-silver too, lined with vair and clasped at the collar with a brooch in the shape of the twin towers . “Ramsay Snow,” Wylla Manderly threw back .
Rhaegar Frey sported a silky beard and a sardonic smile . "I do not fault White Harbor for supporting him. My grandsire made the same grievous mistake." In all the Young Wolf’s battles, White Harbor and the Twins fought side by side beneath his banners .
Wylla Manderly scolded Lady Leona. “Young girls should be an ornament to the eye, not an ache in the ear.” There went my only friend in this hall, thought Davos. “Marriage will soften her, I have no doubt. A firm hand and a quiet word.” “If not, there are the silent sisters.” Lord Wyman shifted in his seat .
Damon Dance-for-Me gave Reek a horse and a banner, a warm fur cloak, and set him loose . Reek did not dare to look back, for fear that Damon and Yellow Dick were coming after him . The stot they had given him was a wretched thing, knock-kneed and half-starved .
Moat Cailin was infested with serpents, lizard lions, and bog devils with their poisoned arrows . He would not run, he could not run. I will deliver him the castle. I must. It was a grey day, damp and misty . The wind was from the south, moist as a kiss . His horse moved toward them at a walk, her hooves making faint wet squelching sounds as they
Reek rode a broken-down stot, all skin and bone and ribs, and he rode her slowly for fear he might fall off . The other man had been a good rider, but Reek was uneasy on horseback . He was Lord Ramsay’s creature, lower than a dog, a worm in human skin .
Robb Stark’s vanguard had laid down a log-and-plank road across the soft ground to speed the passage of his host . Where once a mighty curtain wall had stood, only scattered stones remained, blocks of black basalt so large it must once have taken a hundred men to hoist them into place . Beyond stood the towers. The Drunkard’s Tower thrust into the sky as straight as a spear, but its shattered top was open to the wind and rain 
The only dry road through the Neck was the causeway, and the towers of Moat Cailin plugged its northern end like a cork in a bottle . To assault any of the three towers, an attacker must expose his back to arrows from the other two, whilst climbing damp stone walls festooned with streamers of slimy white ghostskin .
A quick death here would be a hundred times better than returning to Lord Ramsay as a failure . The ironmen were discussing whether to admit him or fill his chest with arrows . It startedled him so badly that he dropped the peace banner and tumbled from his saddle .
Reek had come into this world in the dungeons of the Dreadfort . He had to forget that for a little while, though . No man would ever yield to a creature such as Reek, no matter how desperate his situation .
The guard stared at the dead man as if seeing him for the first time . He rubbed his mouth to hide his broken teeth, and said, “I need to speak with your commander.” “He’s dying. Might be he’s dead. I haven’t seen him since ... I don’t remember when...” “Who will keep the door, then?” Reek gave the corpse a kick.
Ralf Kenning lay shivering beneath a mountain of furs . His shield bore the storm god’s cloudy hand, lightning crackling from his fingers down to a raging sea . He was naked and feverish, his pale puffy flesh covered with weeping sores and scabs. His head was misshapen, one cheek grotesquely swollen, his neck so engorged with blood that it threatened to swallow his face .
Reek snatched up Ralf Kenning’s sword where it leaned against his shield . He still had fingers enough to clasp the hilt . The air was damp and cold there, but much cleaner by comparison .
Robb was at the head of the table, with the Greatjon to his right and Roose Bolton on his left . Two dozen ironborn sat drinking at the table. A few looked at him with dull, flat eyes when he entered . It did not surprise him that his uncle had chosen to leave these men behind when the Iron Fleet went home .
Lord Balon bent the knee when Robert broke his wall . Elsewise he would have died. As you will if you do not yield . Give up your swords and come with me, and his lordship will feed you .
"My uncle is never coming back," says one-armed man . "You are the ones he left behind to die. He scraped you off the same way he scrapes mud off his boots when he wades ashore." "Is that what it says on this here writing?" he nudged parchment, its wax seal still unbroken .
A throwing axe sprouted from the center of his forehead with a solid thunk . It was the one-armed man who’d flung the axe, then crashed face-first onto the table . A man took a swallow of ale and turned his cup over to wash away a finger of blood before it reached the place where he was seated .
A man's death, not the end of Ralf Kenning suffered . He had a rock wife and three salt wives back on Great Wyk . It took the better part of the afternoon before the ironborn were ready to depart . There were more of them than he would have guessed .
Aye, name him Reek, he thought, and wondered if Ralf Kenning hadn’t been the lucky one . A light rain had begun to piss down out of the slate-grey sky by the time Lord Ramsay’s camp appeared in front of them . The air was full of drifting smoke from the cookfires drowning in the rain . Lord Ryswell’s sons, Reek knew. Roger, or maybe Rickard .
Lord Ramsay Bolton kissed him on his cheek and whispered, “My old friend Reek. Did they really take you for their prince? What bloody fools, these ironmen. The gods are laughing.” Ramsay murmured, as softly as a lover. His breath smelled of mulled wine and cloves, so sweet .
Lord Ramsay said: “My place is here, with you. I’m your Reek. I only want to serve you. All I ask ... a skin of wine, that would be reward enough for me ... red wine, the strongest that you have, all the wine a man can drink ... Walder, see to it. And fear not, I won’t return you to the dungeons, you have my word as a Bolton. We’ll make a dog of you instead.”
Lord Ramsay took three riders down the causeway to take word to his lord father that the way was clear . The flayed man of House Bolton was hoisted above the Gatehouse Tower, where Reek had hauled down the golden kraken of Pyke . Three days later, the vanguard of Lord Walder’s host threaded its way through the ruins and past the row of grisly sentinels .
A man armored in dark grey plate over a quilted tunic of blood-red leather . From his shoulders streamed a pink woolen cloak embroidered with droplets of blood . A wagon groaned along behind him, drawn by six heavy draft horses . Farther back came the baggage train—lumbering wayns laden with provisions and loot taken in the war .
Lord of the Dreadfort studied Roose Bolton for a moment . Lord Ramsay knelt before his sire . He turned to help two young women down from inside the wagon .
Arya Stark had her father's eyes, the grey eyes of the Starks . Jeyne Poole was her name, but the girl dipped down before him . JON His candle had guttered out in a pool of wax . Jon had fallen asleep over his work again .
Jon feared for Sam and Maester Aemon . The Storm Crow had sighted the wreckage of a galley along the coast of Skagos . I meant to send Gilly and the babe to their graves instead? Last night’s supper had congealed beside his elbow .
Jon washed and dressed and left the armory, stopping in the yard just long enough to say a few words of encouragement to Hop-Robin and Emmett’s other charges . He declined Ty’s offer of a tail, though, and Ghost followed at his heels . By the time he reached the stable, Dolorous Edd had the lord commander’s palfrey saddled and bridled and waiting for him .
Jon was a good man in his way, but the wound he had taken at the Bridge of Skulls had hardened his attitudes . Othell Yarwyck was as stolid and unimaginative as he was taciturn, and the First Rangers seemed to die as quick as they were named . The Night’s Watch has lost too many of its best men, Jon reflected, as the wagons began to move .
The wildlings brought their gods with them after all . The whole pageant that Lady Melisandre had orchestrated beyond the Wall suddenly seemed as empty as a mummer’s farce . “She’s not like to see it. See that no one tells her.” “Smoke and cinders” Jon glanced back at the face, wondering who had carved it .
The chestnut was leafless and skeletal, but its bare brown limbs were not empty . When it spied Jon it spread its wings and gave a scream . He wondered if they would all be reduced to eating ravens before winter had run its course .
The Magnar of Thenn had put the empty village to the torch when he passed through on his way to attack Castle Black, and only heaps of blackened beams and old scorched stones remained aboveground . The wagons drew up in a crescent in front of what had once been the village smithy . Nearby a swarm of red-faced children were building a snow fort, but they scattered at the sight of the black-cloaked brothers, vanishing
Lord Harwood Fell's count had included men who had suffered wounds, Jon knew . Not all the fighting men were broken, though . Half a dozen Thenns in bronze scale armor stood clustered round one cellar stair . There are wolves amongst these sheep, still .
“I need two of each. One o’ each for me, t’others for my boy. He’s sick, but an apple will set him right.” Hal shook his head. “He has to come get his own apple. Or his onion. Not both. Same as you.” “Move along, woman,” shouted a man three places back . “An apple,” she said, and he gave her one, an old dried thing, small and withered .
Mormont’s raven walked from Jon’s left shoulder to his right, bobbing its head and muttering, “Snow, snow, snow.” Jon waited until the last echoes had faded, then spurred his palfrey forward where everyone could see him . “You crows eat good enough.” Halleck shoved forward . The Wall protects the realm ... and you now. You know what’s coming down on us. Some of you have faced them before.
Sigorn's father, the old Magnar, had been crushed beneath the falling stair during his attack on Castle Black . He turned away from the Thenns . A chunky red-faced man shouted assent .
"I will take any boy above the age of twelve who knows how to hold a spear or string a bow. I will take your old men, your wounded, and your cripples, even those who can no longer fight. There are other tasks they may be able to perform . You’re taking boys as young as twelve. But only those who know how to obey an order. That goes for all of you.
Jon Snow squirmed between a pair of old men, but he was not about to turn away his only recruit . A pair of striplings followed her, boys no older than fourteen; Next a scarred man with a missing eye . Halleck was a man of note; Mance was not wrong .
Bowen Marsh asked Jon on the ride back up the kingsroad . “We will have lost a man,” said Jon, “but we have just gained sixty-two” Marsh was unconvinced .
The Halfmaester stood over Tyrion. “Duck, be a fine fowl and boil some broth for our little friend here. He must be famished.” He was on the Shy Maid, Tyrion saw, under a scratchy blanket that smelled of vinegar. “Why do I stink of vinegar?” “Lemore has been washing you with it. Some say it helps prevent the greyscale. You were as cold as ice, and your lips were blue.” “Selhor
Tyrion grimaced. He stabbed another toe, cursed as a bead of blood welled up around the knife’s point . “Your feet smell worse than mine, Yollo.” Duck had a cup of broth . The dwarf recrossed his legs and began to prick the other set of toes .
The Shy Maid was moored to a weathered pier on the east bank of the Rhoyne . The Volantene river galley was discharging soldiers . Selhorys was still accounted a mere town, and was ruled from Old Volantis .
Lemore had changed out of her septa’s robes into garb more befitting the wife or daughter of a prosperous merchant . "I preferred you in your septa's garb, Lemore," said Tyrion .
Lemore gave him a reproachful look . "You are not the only one who must needs hide," Tyrion said . The perfect prince was half a boy .
A true friend, our Lord Connington. He must be, to remain so fiercely loyal to the grandson of the king who took his lands and titles and sent him into exile . The lad flushed. “That was not me. I told you. That was some tanner’s son from Pisswater Bend whose mother died birthing him.” “Aye.” Tyrion moved his elephants . “You are her perfect prince, agreed, bright and bold and comely as
Prince Aegon's mouth twisted in fury . "I will not come to my aunt a beggar. I will come to her a kinsman, with an army"
The dwarf pushed his black dragon across a range of mountains . The dwarf could not help but think of Joffrey. I have a gift for angering princes .
The Seven Kingdoms will never be more ripe for conquest than they are right now . A boy king sits the Iron Throne. The north is in chaos, the riverlands a devastation . When winter comes, the realm will starve . Why, my own sweet sister. There is no one else. My brother, Jaime, thirsts for battle, not for power. The gods shaped him to be a follower, not a leader. And everyone hates Stannis
Prince Aegon said, “without Daenerys and her dragons, how could we hope to win?” “You do not need to win,” Tyrion told him. “You said she might not have me.” “Perhaps I overstated. She may take pity on you when you come begging for her hand.” “Do you want to wager your throne upon a woman’s whim? Go to Westeros, though ... then you are a rebel, not a be
Yandry and Ysilla returned to the Shy Maid at Dusk . Yandry had a wine cask on one shoulder, while YSilla had slung a pike over hers . The dwarf raised both hands and made a peculiar stabbing gesture with three fingers .
The Halfmaester went below. The girl never started for the west. No doubt she had good reasons . Between Meereen and Volantis lay five hundred leagues of deserts, mountains, swamps, and ruins . The sea would be swifter, but if she does not have the ships?
The whores of Lannisport and King’s Landing were free women . Their sisters of Selhorys were slaves, their bondage indicated by the tears tattooed beneath their right eyes . The slave soldiers of Volantis were fiercely proud of their tiger stripes .
Tyrion spied the dwarf and said something that made the others laugh . He pulled off his clawed gauntlet and the sweaty glove beneath the dwarf’s neck . Tyrion forced himself to smile at the man. "Tell him that it is even better luck to suck on a dwarf's cock"
The Volantenes were not amused. He was put to death soon after . “His statue seems to lack a head.” “He was a tiger. When the elephants came to power, their followers went on a rampage, knocking the heads from the statues of those they blame for all the wars and deaths.” Tyrion crossed his arms and looked behind him, studying the faces of the men and women who had stopped to listen .
“Benerro has sent forth the word from Volantis. Her coming is the fulfillment of an ancient prophecy. From smoke and salt was she born to make the world anew. She is Azor Ahai returned ... and her triumph over darkness will bring a summer that will never end ... death itself will bend its knee, and all those who die fighting in her cause shall be reborn ...” Tyrion had ever known Thoros of Myr, the portly, genial, wine-s
Haldon drew up a chair between them and said, “My dwarf plays better cyvasse than both of you combined.” The thinner man raised his eyes to gaze at the intruders in distaste and said something in the tongue of Old Volantis . The thin man shifted an onyx elephant. He answered with his own heavy horse .
The noble Qavo Nogarys is the customs officer here in Selhorys . He opened his purse and stacked silver coins beside the board . Tyrion understood. “Perhaps I will be more fortunate.” Tyrion replied .
She is blood-thirsty, that those who speak against her are impaled on spikes to die lingering deaths . They say that her lust cannot be sated, that she mates with men, women, eunuchs, even dogs and children . She gives her body to men to take their souls in thrall .
Qavo Nogarys said, “The red priest outside seemed to think Volantis should fight for this silver queen, not against her.” “Already there has been fighting between their followers and those who worship other gods.” “What rantings?” Benerro asked, toying with his rabble. The Volantene waved a hand . “That’s a prophecy even I could make. Ah, supper.”
“The time has come for bitter tears,” Qavo said at last . “My dwarf has had his lesson in humility. I think it is best we get back to our boat.” Outside in the square, the nightfire was still burning, but the priest was gone .
The proprietor squinted, uncomprehending, so he repeated the question in High Valyrian . “Sunset girl” was all the dwarf could get out of his answer . The dwarf had freckled cheeks and tight red curls upon her head .
Tyrion had been so long without a woman that he spent himself inside her on the third thrust . He rolled off feeling more ashamed than sated . The whore did not answer that one either .
Tyrion fumbled back into his clothes again and groped his way to the stair . It dripped from his beard and soaked the feather bed . When he was done he tossed the empty flagon aside and half-staggered to the floor . The whore cried out in distress. They will blame her for this, he realized .
Tyrion rolled onto his feet and gave them a bow . "I fear I ruined your carpet. The girl’s not to blame. Let me pay." He pulled out a fistful of coins and tossed them at the man . Lyseni was younger than the others, slim and pretty .
DAENERYS Galazza Galare arrived at the Great Pyramid attended by a dozen White Graces . They made for a pretty portrait, the proud old woman all in green surrounded by the little girls robed and veiled in white, armored in their innocence . The queen summoned Missandei to see that the girls were fed and entertained while she shared a private supper with the Green Grace .
The Mother’s Men loosed flights of fire arrows at their sails and flung pots of burning pitch onto their decks . The Qartheen mean to close the river to us, as they have closed the bay . And they are no longer alone .
The Shavepate had fought about the hostages half a dozen times . The Sons of the Harpy are laughing in their pyramids . "These murders are not their doing," Skahaz said .
Dany speared a chunk of lamb, took a bite from it, chewed slowly . “A king is not a god, but there is still much that a strong man might do. A highborn king of pure Ghiscari blood could reconcile the city to your rule. Elsewise, I fear, your reign must end as it began, in blood and fire,” Galazza Galare said firmly .
She trusted Skahaz more than she trusted Hizdahr, but the Shavepate would be a disaster as a king . He was too quick to anger, too slow to forgive. She saw no gain in wedding a man as hated as herself.
The queen swallowed her anger and made herself smile . She sent for Ser Barristan and told the old knight to bring Hizdahr to her . By the time the nobleman had made the ascent, the Green Grace had finished eating .
“I have never wed. I have two natural children, a boy and a girl, so I can give you heirs.” “Can you?” Dany studied his eyes . “Why should the Sons of the Harpy lay down their knives for you? Are you one of them?” “No.” “Would you tell me if you were?” “The Shavepate has ways of finding the truth.” “I do not doubt that Skahaz would soon have me confessing. A day with him
Qarth depends upon its slaves. So too Tolos, New Ghis, Lys, Tyrosh, Volantis ... the list is long, my queen.” “Let them come. In me they shall find a sterner foe than Cleon. I would sooner perish fighting than return my children to bondage.” “Save for the blood of those slaves that the Yunkai’i will trade and train,” Dany said . It may be that is the best end we can hope
"I do not love you," Hizdahr zo Loraq asked . "One day all men must die, but it serves no good to dwell on death," Dany said . In my Seven Kingdoms, knights go on quests to prove themselves worthy of maiden .
Hizdahr zo Loraq appeared behind her in his long white cloak . He knows, she saw at once, and he disapproves . "It is not my place to choose your husband," she said .
“Your Grace, may I speak frankly?” “Always.” “There is a third choice.” “Westeros?” He nodded. “No more than Meereen will accept Daenerys Targaryen as queen. The Green Grace has the right of that. The Seven Kingdoms will never accept Hizdahr zo Loraq as king.” “We will always see me as the uncouth barbarian who smashed through their gates, impaled their kin on spikes
The word spoke volumes. I could become fond of Hizdahr zo Loraq, in time. Perhaps. Ser Barristan went on. “I saw your father and your mother wed as well.” “Why did they wed if they did not love each other?” “A woods witch?” Dany was astonished .
Daario Naharis wore striped pantaloons tucked into high boots of purple leather . His flamboyant mustachios gold, his long curls equal parts of both . "Your captain lives to serve his cruel queen," said Missandei .
“I had urgent need of her wise counsel.” “I have not eaten in two days, but now that I am here, it is enough for me to feast upon your beauty.” “My beauty will not fill up your belly.” He took a bite of the pear, his gold tooth gleaming . The girl in her wanted to kiss him so much it hurt . But the queen in her knew that would be folly . “Tell me of your journey.” He gave a careless shrug .
“They might be spying for Yunkai.” “They are too stupid to be spies.” “Neither do you. Do you trust them?” He spat out a seed and smiled at her suspicions . “Shall I bring their heads to you? I will, if you command it. The slinger can put a stone through a gnat’s eye at forty paces, and the ugly one has a way with horses, but if my queen says that they must die
Drogon and Viserion grew more savage every day . When the iron doors had glowed red-hot, her Unsullied told her . She told him of the Harpy’s Sons and the Brazen Beasts .
"I want peace. I gave Hizdahr ninety days to end the killings," Daario said . He is as bold as he is bloody . "Your own subjects would gladly slaughter you," Dany recalls .
Dany was appalled. He is a monster. A gallant monster, but still . All kings are butchers. Are queens so different? “This queen is.” Daario shrugged .
A ferocious southern sun beat down upon the crowded riverfront of Volon Therys . The Golden Company was encamped three miles south of town, well north of where he had expected them . Triarch Malaquo had come north with five thousand foot and a thousand horse to cut them off from the delta road by now .
Harry Strickland is all that could be wanted in a prince . He has ten thousand swords at his command. We have Duck . The Golden Company was sold-swords now, and no sellsword could be trusted .
Seventeen years had come and gone since the Battle of the Bells, yet the sound of bells ringing still tied a knot in his guts . For Aerys and his queen, for Elia of Dorne and her little daughter, for every true man and honest woman in the Seven Kingdoms.
The Halfmaester looked hot and bedraggled as he made his way along the waterfront to the foot of the pier . He had left dark rings beneath the arms of his light linen robes, and he had the same sour look on his long face as at Selhorys, when he returned to the Shy Maid to confess that the dwarf was gone . “As you say,” Griff answered, unhappily .
The Imp was clever enough to have conspired in his own escape . The Shy Maid would have gotten them there more quickly, but he preferred to keep Harry Strickland ignorant of where he and the prince had been . At his throat he wore three square-cut rubies on a chain of black iron .
“I like the sound of that. My army awaits your coming,” Griff admitted . It might have been different if Blackheart still commanded, but Myles Toyne was four years dead . Homeless Harry Strickland was a different sort of man . He would not say that to the boy, however.
A deep ditch had been dug around it, with sharpened stakes inside . The latrines had been placed beside the river, so the current would wash away wastes . There is not a warhorse in all of Westeros that will stand against them .
"You look awful, even for a man’s been dead a dozen years," said Franklyn Flowers . The prince acknowledged him with a nod . "Flowers is a bastard name. You’re from the Reach," Flowers said .
The captain-general’s tent was made of cloth-of-gold and surrounded by a ring of pikes topped with gilded skulls . One skull was larger than the rest, grotesquely malformed . Below it was a second, no larger than a child’s fist .
Ser Aegor Rivers had famously commanded his men to boil the flesh from his skull, dip it in gold, and carry it before them when they crossed the sea to retake Westeros . His successors had followed his example; Jon Connington might have been one of those successors if his exile had gone otherwise .
Some of the sellsword captains bore bastard names, as Flowers did: Rivers, Hill, Stone . Others claimed names that had once loomed large in the history of the Seven Kingdoms . Griff counted two Strongs, three Peakes, a Mudd, A Mandrake and a Lothston . Not all were genuine, he knew .
Harry Strickland looked little like a warrior . It is a mark of weakness. You sound like an old woman . The Stricklands had been part of Golden Company since its founding .
Aegon Targaryen is firstborn son of Rhaegar, Prince of Dragonstone, by Princess Elia of Dorne . He is now a King of Andals, the Rhoynar, and the First Men, and Lord of the Seven Kingdoms . The envoy sent to woo Volantis has already dispatched three free companies to Slaver’s Bay .
“I told him I would think on his proposal.” Harry winced as his squire toweled his feet . “You will have work for your blades soon enough.” “Will we?” asked Lysono Maar.
We have ten thousand men in the company, as I am sure Lord Connington remembers from his years of service with us . Five hundred knights, each with three horses, five hundred squires, with one mount apiece . "We could feign acceptance of the Yunkai’i offer," urged Gorys Edoryen .
Harry Strickland had always been a genial man, better at hammering out contracts . He had a nose for gold, but whether he had the belly for battle was another question . "There is the land route," suggested Franklyn Flowers .
Westeros is another matter. The east is closed to us, not the sea. The triarchs would be glad to see the back of us, I do not doubt. They might even help us arrange passage back to the Seven Kingdoms .
Tiwin Lannister is dead, and it was to be the sister, a pliable young child queen . The Fat man decides we should meet her by Volantis . Now that plan is in ruins .
Tristan Rivers slapped his sword hilt and said, “So long as I can kill some Fossoways, I’m for it.” This is a side of Aegon I never saw before. It was not the prudent course, but he was tired of prudence, sick of secrets, weary of waiting . The last to do so was Homeless Harry Strickland, blistered feet and all .
Franklyn Flowers offered to take the prince around the camp and introduce him to some of what he called the lads . Griff left him there, and slipped inside the tent that Homeless Harry had assigned him . The road ahead was full of perils, but what of it? All men must die .
Jon Connington slipped his mail shirt off over his head and peeled the glove from his right hand . The nail on his middle finger had turned as black as jet, he saw, and the grey had crept up almost to the first knuckle . A year. Two years. Five. Some stone men live for ten .
The command came down from the Tattered Prince through his captains and his serjeants . Baqq, the squint-eyed Myrish crossbowman whose name meant Beans . "We’ll get provisions in Yunkai, maybe fresh horses, then it will be on to Meereen to dance with the dragon queen."
The Windblown went back thirty years, and had known but one commander, the soft-spoken, sad-eyed Pentoshi nobleman called the Tattered Prince . His hair and mail were silver-grey, but his cloak was made of twists of cloth of many colors, blue and grey and purple, red and gold and green, magenta and vermilion and cerulean .
The more Quentyn heard of Daenerys Targaryen, the more he feared that meeting . The Yunkai’i claimed that she fed her dragons on human flesh and bathed in the blood of virgins to keep her skin smooth and supple . And Books, the clever Volantene swordsman thought the dragon queen both murderous and mad .
Astapor was still asmolder, though by now most of the great fires had burned out . The sellswords loved Greenguts, who bet as fearlessly as he fought . "I’ll want my armor, Frog. Did you scrub that blood off my mail?"
Quentyn had not asked how many other men had worn it before him, how many men had died in it . Wealthy knights from Houses old in honor did not cross the narrow sea to sell their swords unless exiled for some infamy . It took the Windblown less than an hour to strike their camp .
A hundred leagues from Astapor to Yunkai by the old Ghiscari coast road . Another fifty from Yankai to Meereen . A hero named Yurkhaz zo Yunzak had the supreme command .
The Yellow Whale was said to be the richest man in Yunkai . His slaves included a boy with the legs and hooves of a goat, a bearded woman and a two-headed monster from Mantarys . Then there was the Girl General, who rode about on a white horse with a red mane .
The Little Pigeon was the tallest ever seen; the shortest stood seven feet tall . The stilts built into the legs of their ornate armor made them longer still . Each man wore a long curved sword upon his hip .
Little Pigeon and his Herons paled beside the folly of the sellswords called the Clanker Lords . The last time the slave soldiers had faced the dragon queen’s Unsullied, they broke and ran . They chained their troops together in groups of ten, wrist to wrist and ankle to ankle .
The Stormcrows and the Second Sons went over to the dragon queen . “Gold is sweet, but life is sweeter,” Beans said . The dragon queen’s got the real item, the kind that don’t break and run when you fart in their general direction.”
Astapor's new Unsullied had been pouring through their gates and forming up in ranks beneath their city's crumbling red brick walls . A second King Cleon had taken the crown and died in turn, supposedly, and now the Astapori were ruled by a mad barber whose followers were fighting with each other to control the city .
Quentyn had trained with spear and sword and shield since he was old enough to walk, but that meant nothing now . He pointed out the Butcher King to him, sitting stiff and tall upon an armored horse in a suit of copper scale that flashed brilliantly in the morning sun . By then the Astapori were advancing . Dead or alive, he still took the Wise Masters unaware .
Caggo was the one who finally cut him down, opening Cleon the Great from shoulder to hip with one blow of his curved Valyrian arakh . Astapori pulled him from his tomb, clapped him into armor, and tied him onto a horse in hopes of giving heart to their Unsullied . Frog had done his part in the slaughter that followed, riding down the frightened eunuchs with the other Windblown .
"The big man should be here as well," said Quentyn . "Leave him out of this. He’ll do as we say, though he won’t like it much," he said . The Yunkai’i had brought them from Old Volantis to fight for the Yellow City .
“We need to steal away before we end up fighting the woman I was sent to woo.” “Wait till Yunkai.” Gerris gestured at the hills . “The big man’s made too many friends. He knows the plan was always to steal off and make our way to Daenerys,” said Quentyn .
Hungerford had been company paymaster for a time, until the Tattered Prince had caught him stealing from the coffers and removed three of his fingers . It took Quentyn only a moment to realize that most of those assembled were from the Seven Kingdoms . Dick Straw claimed there were three score Westerosi in the company; a good third of those were here, including Denzo D’han, and Caggo Corpsekiller .
The Yunkai’i don’t want them near their Yellow City . We’ve been commanded to hunt them down and drive them back to Astapor or north to Meereen . If the dragon queen wants to take them in, she’s welcome to them . Stay well away from those who show signs of the flux .
Quentyn Martell almost laughed aloud. The gods are mad. The Westerosi shifted uneasily. Some stared into their wine cups, as if they hoped to find some wisdom there. Hugh Hungerford raised his two-fingered hand .
"The girl would be a fool to trust us. Even with Meris," the Tattered Prince said . "You are all Westerosi. Friends from home. You speak her same tongue, worship her same gods. As for motive, all of you have suffered wrongs at my hands." "He could have given her back when he’d had her," Lucifer Long complained.
The three Dornishmen were silent as they left the command tent . Twenty riders, all speaking the Common Tongue, thought Quentyn . The big man slapped him hard across the back . Asha Greyjoy was seated in Galbart Glover’s longhall drinking .
Lady Dustin, Lady Cerwyn, and four Ryswells had appended their signatures beneath him . The message above was scrawled in brown in a huge, spiky hand . It spoke of the fall of Moat Cailin, of the triumphant return of the Warden of the North to his domains, of a marriage soon to be made .
Lady Sybelle Glover had left them at Ten Towers in care of her aunts . She had judged the girl too delicate to expose to the rigors of another stormy crossing . The maester inclined his head and departed and turned to Asha .
Balon Greyjoy knew that the Moat was the key to holding the north . He simply did not cared what happened to Deepwood Motte or Torrhen’s Square . “The wolves are all slain,” insisted Cromm .
Asha Greyjoy loved her men, captains and crew alike, but half of them were fools . Between Deepwood and Dagmer lay long leagues, rugged hills, thick woods, wild rivers, and more northmen than she cared to contemplate . Asha had four longships and not quite two hundred men ... including Tristifer Botley .
He sucked her nipples till she cried out half in pain and half in pleasure . She forgot Moat Cailin and Ramsay Bolton and his little piece of skin . He fucked her until she screamed, and then again until she wept .
Qarl the Maid had never seen a peach, so she told him he must join her on her next voyage south . It had been summer; Robert sat the Iron Throne, Balon broode on the Seastone Chair, and the Seven Kingdoms were at peace . When she made him try a bite, the juice ran down his chin, and she had to kiss it clean .
Asha liked the way his long, straight hair brushed against his shoulders . She liked how he grinned when she brushed her thumbs across his nipples . He had a swimmer’s body, long and lean, with not a scar upon him .
No, Asha thought, I am no queen, nor shall I ever be. “Go back to sleep.” She kissed his cheek, padded across Galbart Glover’s bedchamber, and threw the shutters open. The moon was almost full, the night so clear that she could see the mountains, their peaks crowned with snow. The foothills and the smaller peaks were lost in shadow. The sea was closer, only five leagues north, but Asha could not see it. Too many
Deepwood’s mossy walls enclosed a wide, rounded hill with a flattened top . It was the bailey, with its stables, paddock, smithy, well, and sheepfold . There were two gates, each protected by a pair of square wooden towers . Asha Greyjoy did not intend to be taken alive .
Euron’s mad. And dangerous. That hellhorn ...” “You dare not let his eye fall upon you.” “... you will die outcast, with every hand against you.” Only once has the choice of a kingsmoot been overthrown . “If you are staying, so am I,” Asha told him stubbornly .
Asha was still at Ten Towers taking on provisions when the tidings of her marriage reached her . "My wayward niece needs taming," the Crow’s Eye reported to have said . He named the Anvil-Breaker to rule the Iron Islands while he was chasing dragons .
Asha donned thick black breeches, a quilted tunic, and a green leather jerkin covered with overlapping plates of steel . Leaving Qarl to his dreams, she padded down the keep’s exterior stair, the steps creaking under her bare feet . Tris Botley stepped into the kitchen, abandoning his king and kin and home .
Tris had grown himself a thick brown beard at Deepwood . He claimed it helped to keep his face warm . “If you have the watch, what are you doing here?” “Cromm’s up there, and Hagen the Horn.” “Again?” She sighed .
Sea Dragon Point had not always been as thinly peopled as it was now . Old ruins could still be found amongst its hills and bogs . There are no mines, no gold, no silver, not even tin or iron .
Euron won no friends on Black-tyde when he slew Lord Baelor . He is hunting down the Drowned God on the Crow’s Eye and his minions . Ironmaker’s search is just to make us believe the priest escaped .
Torgon the Latecomer became the king and ruled for forty years . Asha took Tris Botley by the ears and kissed him full upon the lips . He was red and breathless by the time she let him go .
Lorren Longaxe, Six-Toed Harl and Grimtongue were standing over them . One man was dead, his blood and brains crusting Lorren’s longaxe . The second was still breathing raggedly . "A Flint. Who are you?" Asha asked the wounded man .
Grimtongue cried out in anguish as more blood gushed from his wound . “Gods, stop. We come for the lady. T’ rescue her. It was just us five.” Asha looked into his eyes . When she saw the falsehood there, she leaned upon the spear, twisting it .
Galbart Glover's folk looked on with fearful faces, whispering to one another . Glover’s steward had to be carried up from the cellar, having lost a leg when Asha took the castle . The maester pushed forward, with blood dripping from a broken nose .
“No,” boomed Rolfe the Dwarf, a bear of a man who stood a head taller than anyone else in her crew . Hagen’s horn sounded again from on high, ringing out across the bailey . Asha Greyjoy turned her own steps for the watchtower, with Tris Botley right behind her .
Aye, but will they sing of your courage or my folly? The sea was five long leagues away . Ironborn fight better with salt spray in their nostrils and the sound of the waves at their backs . Asha was not ready to die, not here, not yet.
Hagen blew three short blasts in quick succession . From below came shouting, the clatter of spear and sword, the whinnying of horses . Too few horses and too few riders. Asha headed for the stair .
Tris Botley galloped up beside her on a tall roan stallion . Qarl the Maid took his place between Grimtongue and Lorren Longaxe . Rolfe the Dwarf pulled the girl onto his horse, her red hair flying . Asha could hear the north gate groaning as the ram slammed into it again .
“We need to turn north, for the ships.” “West first,” Asha said . “If you come on wolves, ride back to me with word.” “If we must” promised Rolfe the Dwarf and Roggon Rustbeard .
No one slept, not even Droop-eye Dale, an oarsman who had been known to nap between strokes . Some of the men shared a skin of Galbart Glover’s apple wine, passing it from hand to hand . Those who brought food shared it with those who had not slept .
The ironborn were clad in mail and salt-stained leather, the northmen in furs and hides and piney branches . The moon and stars looked down upon their struggle, their pale light filtered through the tangle of bare limbs that twisted overhead . Asha thought, and they know these woods better than we ever could .
Asha Greyjoy died at her feet with her throwing axe between his eyes . That gave her respite enough to slip her shield onto her arm . Asha raised her shield to block his blow, then shoved in close to gut him with her dirk . A hand seized her hair, but short as it was he could not get a good grip .
She pushed her dirk into a northman’s chest through fur and wool and boiled leather . Asha felt iron scraping against bone as her point slid over a rib . She stood back-to-back with Qarl, listening to the grunts and curses .
Asha had a sword in hand, a short sword with a broad thick blade, almost like a butcher’s cleaver . Her arm ached, her mouth tasted of blood, her legs were trembling, and shafts of pale dawn light were slanting through the trees . Asha wanted to shout back at him, but her throat was so dry she could do no more than grunt .
The wolf raised the axe above his head to split her head in two . Asha tried to slip to her right, but her feet were tangled in some roots . The world went red and black and red again . There are no trumpets in the Drowned God’s watery halls .
Volantis closed its gates at dark, and the guardsmen were grumbling impatiently at the stragglers . The guards motioned the wagon through with their torches but took a harder look at the big Andal on his warhorse, with his longsword and his mail . A captain was summoned. “Save your lies for those who speak your tongue, Imp,” the dwarf said .
Palms and cedars grew along the cobbled road, and monuments stood at every junction . Many of the statues lacked heads, but even headless they still managed to look imposing in the purple dusk . Where a fort had once overlooked the river now stood a broken gate, gaping open like an old man’s toothless mouth .
Mighty Volantis, grandest and most populous of the Nine Free Cities . Ancient wars had depopulated much of the city, however . But large areas of volantis had begun to sink back into the mud on which it stood . Flowering vines sent up creepers from every crack in the wall or pavement .
Farther south, signs of prosperity began to reappear . Abandoned buildings were seen less often, naked children vanished . A few of the buildings they passed actually looked like places where a man might sleep without fear of having his throat slit . There was something in the air that made Tyrion uneasy .
Volantis was overrun with white dwarf elephants . Big grey elephants were not uncommon . Swarms of flies followed the carts, so the dung slaves had tattooed on their cheeks to mark them .
Seven save me, that’s got to be three times the size of the Great Sept of Baelor . The Temple of the Lord of Light loomed like Aegon’s High Hill . A hundred hues of red, yellow, gold, and orange met and melded in the temple walls .
Benerro jabbed a finger at the moon, made a fist, spread his hands wide . Tyrion recognized perhaps two in ten; one was Doom, the other Darkness . Shouts erupted from the crowd .
Daenerys has dragons, Aegon does not. The dwarf did not need to be a prophet himself to foresee how Benerro and his followers might react to a second Targaryen . The knight had forced their way through most of the press at the back of the plaza, ignoring the curses that were flung at them as they passed . Tyrion dismounted, then hammered on the door until a haggard slave came running .
Tyrion slung his weapons, shield, and saddlebag over his shoulder and asked for directions to the nearest smithy . He drew his dagger and slit Tyrion’s bonds apart, then nodded and accepted a fistful of coins . “Save your gratitude for someone who deserves it, Imp. You will not like this next bit,” Tyrion said .
Volantis straddled one mouth of the Rhoyne where the river kissed the sea, its two halves joined by the Long Bridge . The oldest, richest part of the city was east of the river, but sellswords, barbarians, and other uncouth outlanders were not welcome there . Beyond the arch stretched the great span that the Valyrians had built at the height of their glory .
A third of the way out, a wagon laden with melons had gotten its wheels tangled with one piled high with silken carpets and brought all wheeled traffic to a halt . Much of the foot traffic had stopped as well, to watch the drivers curse and scream at one another, but the knight grabbed hold of Tyrion’s chain and bulled a path through the throng for both of them .
Two men and a woman were on display at the bridge’s center span . A pair of spearmen attended them, clad in polished helms and shirts of silver mail . From time to time the guards waved their spears to chase away the kestrels, gulls and carrion crows paying court to the deceased .
The Merchant’s House was a four-story monstrosity that squatted amongst the warehouses, brothels, and taverns of the waterside like an enormous fat man surrounded by children . Its common room was larger than the great halls of half the castles in Westeros, a dim-lit maze of a place with a hundred private alcoves and hidden nooks . Soon or late the Shy Maid must reach Volanti
The bedchamber his captor engaged featured a low ceiling, a sagging feather bed with an unpleasant odor, and a wood-plank floor that reminded Tyrion of his sojourn at the Eyrie . At least this room has walls. It had windows too; those were its chief amenity, along with the iron ring set in the wall, so useful for chaining up one’s slaves . “You can fall. I want you alive.” Aye, but why
The Merchant’s House was famous for its locks . As secure as a gaol, the dwarf thought bitterly . Tyrion knew that the chances of his escaping his chains were little and less .
A red priestess scurried past, attended by a dozen acolytes with torches . Elsewhere a pair of cyvasse players waged war outside a tavern . A slave stood beside their table, holding a lantern over the board . Tyrion could hear a woman singing .
“Third day of their elections. They last for ten. Ten days of madness.” Tyrion licked grease from his fingers . “Do all these would-be triarchs provide mummer shows?” Mormont said. “They do whatever they think will win them votes” .
Ser Jorah Mormont hung his sword belt on a bedpost, kicked off his boots, pulled his chain mail over his head, and stripped out of his wool and leather and sweat-stained undertunic to reveal a scarred, brawny torso covered with dark hair . If I could skin Mormont, I could sell that pelt for a fur cloak, Tyrion thought .
Tyrion was snoring, leaving his prize alone with his chains . His wrist was throbbing where he’d torn the skin, and his fetters made it impossible for him to sit, let alone stretch out . When he moved to relieve the strain, sensation came flooding back as pain .
Ser Jorah Mormont loosed his chains anyway . He bit his lip and said, “Wherever we’re going, you will need to roll me there.” The big knight carried him, hoisting him by the chain between his wrists . One table in twenty was occupied at this hour of the morning .
Ser Jorah claimed a table in a quiet corner and ordered food and drink . They broke their fast with warm soft flatbread, pink fish roe, honey sausage, and fried locusts . Tyrion ate like a man half-starved. "You have a healthy appetite this morning," the knight observed .
"I saw a man drowned in gold once. It was not a pretty sight," said Tyrion . The Golden Company was ten thousand strong, seasoned and disciplined . None of them seamen, though .
a bedslave trained at Yunkai in the way of seven sighs, it was a great scandal ... and a greater scandal when he freed her and took her for his wife . When he grew besotted with one of them, he built piers and storehouses, brokered cargoes, changed money, insured shipowners against the hazards of the sea . Tyrion hopped down off his chair with a rattle of iron .
Ser Jorah produced his pair of gloves, and slapped them down on the table beside the other gifts the widow had received this morning . The years had bent her spine and put a crone’s hump upon her back, but the widow’s eyes were bright and black . "We need swift passage to Meereen," Tyrion Lannister said .
A guffaw burst from Tyrion's lips, and suddenly Tyrion could not stop laughing . The widow of the waterfront decided to ignore him . "My dwarf will be quiet, or I’ll see him gagged."
Swords will be wanted soon enough, when warships bend their oars eastward to bring down the silver queen . Tigers love to bare their claws, and even elephants will kill if threatened . Tyrion twisted around for a look, hoping against hope that it was Duck and Haldon he was hearing .
Volantis has had no female triarch since, though some women have the vote . The Old Blood will have their dogs and children voting before any freedman . "Oh, I think it will be war as well, but not the war they want," the widow said .
Ser Jorah Mormont's face was dark with anger, but he answered . "Do you think your dwarf will please her? Will she bathe in his blood?" She laughed again .
Ser Jorah started to rise, the widow snapped her fan closed, her scarred man slid out of the shadows ... and behind them a girl screamed . Tyrion spun just in time to see the dwarf rushing toward him . "I will lead her armies or rub her feet, as she desires. And the only reward I ask is I might be allowed to rape and kill my sister."
Ser Jorah, the widow, and the scarred man stood still as stone . Tyrion had to move both hands at once, but his chains had just enough give for him to reach the flagon on the table . He spun, dashed its contents into the face of the charging dwarf girl, then threw himself to one side to avoid her knife . The flagon shattered underneath him as she fought to free herself .
Ser Jorah Mormont dumped the dwarf girl on the floor . She pushed herself to her knees, clutching her torn, wine-drenched tunic to small, pale breasts . The landlord seized her roughly by one arm and wrenched her back to her feet .
"You are too kind," Tyrion gave her his sweetest smile . "Perhaps you would remove these charming iron bracelets as well? This monster has but half a nose, and it itches most abominably. The chains are too short for me to scratch it. I’ll make you a gift of them, and gladly." "Every man ever taken by slavers sings that same sad song."
Ser Alliser’s mouth twisted into a semblance of a smile, but his eyes remained as cold and hard as flint . “The bastard boy sends me out to die.” “Die, die, die.” You are not helping. “Dywen will be with you, and another seasoned ranger,” Thorne said .
Ser Alliser Thorne is in better hands than he deserves . No one ever said you had to like your brothers . It was no easy thing to send men into the wild knowing that the chances were good that they might never return .
Jon Snow rode the winch cage down with Dolorous Edd . It was falling faster than they were descending and from time to time would vanish beneath them . Then a gust of wind would catch it and push it upward once again .
Jon had sent ten wildlings to each of them: green boys, old men, some wounded and infirm, but all capable of doing work of one sort or another . Iron Emmett was still urging on his charges in the yard . The song of steel on steel woke a hunger in Jon .
Horse and Hop-Robin fetched padding for the lord commander . A black shield rimmed with iron for his left arm, a blunted longsword for his right hand . The sword gleamed silvery grey in the dawn light, almost new .
Jon slammed his own shield into Emrick’s, and brought him down with a blow to the lower leg . He caught the next cut on his shield, then lurched back to his feet and drove Arron across the yard . “You flatter yourself,” Jon said, “Aye, but I’d flatten you.”
The Lord of Bones seemed to stand a little straighter too . He seemed taller too, his shoulders thicker and more powerful than Jon would have thought . Rattleshirt took a step backwards and met the charge with a two-handed sword .
Iron Emmett’s fledglings cheered their lord commander at the start . The relentless speed of Rattleshirt’s attack beat them down to silence . Jon slashed at the wildling’s face, and Rattle shirt pulled back his head .
Jon threw himself forward, bulling into the other man, and they went down together, legs entangled . He smashed it against the ground, then wrenched his visor open . Horse and Iron Emmett dragged him off the lord commander’s chest .
Clydas thrust the parchment forward. It was tightly rolled and sealed, with a button of hard pink wax . Only the Dreadfort uses pink sealing wax. Jon ripped off his gauntlet, took the letter, cracked the seal.
Lady Melisandre and her followers at their nightfire led them in their twilight prayer . Every night at dusk the red woman led her followers in their prayer asking her red god to see them through the dark . The night is dark and full of terrors, with Stannis and most of the queen’s men gone .
Jon Snow felt as stiff as a man of sixty years. Dark dreams, he thought, and guilt . I put all kin aside when I said my words . Castle Black was still and silent, its halls and towers dark .
Jon Snow heard the crackle of the crust breaking on a patch of old snow . When he turned he saw Ygritte. The light of the moon was in her hair, her red hair kissed by fire . He took a step backwards. “I mistook you for someone else.” At night all robes are grey. Yet suddenly hers were red .
"I have seen your sister in my fires, fleeing from this marriage they have made for her. It has not happened yet, but it will." She gazed at Ghost. “May I touch your ... wolf?” The thought made Jon uneasy. “He will not harm me. You call him Ghost, yes?” “Yes, but ...” “Ghost.” The direwolf padded toward her . “You think so?” She knelt and scratched Ghost .
Jon glanced over his shoulder. The shadow was there, just as she had said, etched in moonlight against the Wall . A girl in grey on a dying horse, he thought. Coming here, to you. Arya. He turned back to the red priest-ess .
Nine crows flew into the white wood to find your foes for you . They have not died yet, but their death is out there waiting for them . You sent them forth to be your eyes in the darkness, but they will be eyeless when they return to you.
Davos had never seen a bigger axe than Lady Lu, nor one with a sharper edge . He would go to his death a knight, asking only that they take his head before his hands . Garth would not be so cruel as to deny him that, he hoped .
Davos had furs to keep him warm by night, wood to feed his fire, spiced mutton, turnips, carrots, even crabs . When asked for paper, quill, and ink, Therry brought him fresh-caught fish . Then Garth turned up with The Seven-Pointed Star .
Davos Seaworth had the Wolf’s Den to himself . He knew there were true dungeons down in the castle cellars . His gaolers claimed all of them were unoccupied at present . Therry was the young one, the son of one of the washerwomen .
Therry and Ser Bartimus were smugglers . Garth asked him about the smuggler's life as they drank . He thanked them for his food and encouraged them to talk about their hopes and histories .
The Wolf’s Den had been raised by King Jon Stark to defend the mouth of the White Knife against raiders from the sea . Many a younger son of the King in the North had made his seat there, many an uncle, many a cousin . Some passed the castle to their own sons and grandsons, and offshoot branches of House Stark had arisen .
The White Knife froze hard, and even the firth was icing up . The winds came howling from the north and drove them slavers inside to huddle round their fires . It’s said they hung their entrails in the branches of the heart tree, as an offering to the gods. The old gods, not these new ones from the south.
Davos had written to his wife, a better knight than a King’s Hand . I am so sorry. Marya, I have loved you. Please forgive the wrongs I did you . Should Stannis lose his war, our lands will be lost as well .
Davos shuffled through the letters slowly, reading each one over several times . He was still hunched over the letters when he heard the sound of iron keys rattling on a ring . A longsword hung from his hip, and his deep-dyed scarlet cloak was fastened at the shoulder .
Moat Cailin has fallen, and Roose Bolton has returned to the north with Ned Stark’s younger daughter . Bolton demands homage and hostages ... and witnesses to the wedding of Arya Stark and his bastard Ramsay Snow .
Glover led him along a darkened hall and down a flight of worn steps . They crossed the castle’s godswood and sent its thick, pale limbs crashing through the walls and windows that looked down on it . Beyond the weir-wood, Glover paused to light a torch .
Lord Wyman sighed. “I have treated you most shamefully, I know. I had my reasons, but... please, sit and drink, I beg you. Drink to my boy’s safe return.” Wylis, my eldest son and heir. Wynafryd is dancing with the Frey she is to marry.
Ser Bartimus saw that the fingers of his left hand were shortened, the same as yours . His dying may accomplish more good than anything he ever did whilst living . "My lord should take up a life of mummery," said Davos.
Wylla is a foolish, frightened woman, and Wylis is her life . Not every man has it in him to be Prince Aemon the Dragonknight or Symeon Star-Eyes . Lord Tywin Lannister wrote me himself to say that he had him freed unharmed . If I would have his freed, I must repent my treason, yield my city, declare my loyalty to the boy king on the Iron Throne ... and bend
Mayhaps Tywin Lannister was one such. I sent him back a raven to say that I would bend my knee and open my gates after my son was returned . There the matter stood when Tywin died . The Freys turned up with Wendel’s bones to make a peace and seal it with a marriage pact .
Theomore was born a Lannister of Lannisport and claims some distant kinship to the Lannists of Casterly Rock . He ate Lord Walder’s bread and salt, and hung his sword upon the wall to feast with friends . The north remembers, and the mummer’s farce is almost done. My son is home.”
Robett Glover was older than the Young Wolf’s murdered brothers . He drew a dagger from his belt and gave it to the boy . "Your own king is dead," Davos reminded them .
Winterfell was captured by Theon Greyjoy . He had Stark’s two young sons put to death and mounted their heads above the castle walls . When the northmen came to oust him, he put the entire castle to sword, down to the last child, before he himself was slain by Lord Bolton’s bastard.
"The evil is in his blood," says Robett Glover . "He is a bastard born of rape. A Snow, no matter what the boy king says," asked Lord Wyman .
Roose Bolton wants me on my knees, and beneath the velvet courtesy he shows the iron mail . I shall go by barge and litter, attended by a hundred knights and my good friends from the Twins . Oldcastle and Widow’s Watch will take their lead from me .
The Bastard of Bolton claims Greyjoy murdered Ser Rodrik Cassel during a parley . Robett Glover took up the tale . “We may never know all that happened at Winterfell,” said Lord Wyman .
Wex stole after the two, a woman and a boy. He must have stayed downwind, so the wolf would not catch his scent. “He knows where they went,” Lord Wyman said. “Roose Bolton has Ned’s daughter. The wolf will prove the boy is who we say he is,” Lord Davos said.
DAENERYS Each morning, from her western ramparts, the queen would count the sails on Slaver’s Bay . Sometimes she missed one, or counted one twice, so it was hard to be certain . There were ships from Meereen out in the bay too .
Dany wondered if the grizzled Pentoshi could be one of her three betrayers . No, he is only an old man, far from home and sick at heart . "There must be something we can do," Dany said .
Viserys had told her stories of the tourneys he had witnessed in the Seven Kingdoms . She had never seen a joust herself . “They are not ready, Your Grace. When they are, they will be pleased to demonstrate their prowess.” “Send him up.” The Shavepate’s eyes brimmed with fury . It had been his notion to have the Brazen Beasts follow her betrothed .
Skahaz was convinced that somewhere in Meereen the Sons of the Harpy had a highborn overlord . It would have been pleasant to think that all the deaths were the work of a single enemy who might be caught and killed, but Dany suspected that the truth was otherwise . My enemies are legion.
All the ruling families of Meereen were named: Hazkar, Merreq, Quazzar, Zhak, Rhazdar, Ghazeen, Pahl, even Reznak and Loraq . “If I send the Brazen Beasts into the pyramids, it will mean open war inside the city.” “I have to trust in Hizdahr. I have to hope for peace.” Dany remembered the words Ser Jorah had spoken at Astapor .
Grey Worm came out of the morning mists, a rider on a pale horse, dying . His mare was staggering as she approached the city gates, her sides pink with blood and lather, her eyes rolling with terror . When your servants carried him inside the gates, he cried out again, ‘She is burning,’ he took up the tale from there .
"He was bleeding from the bowels," said Galazza Galare. "We must pray," said the Green Grace . "The gods sent this man to us. He comes as a harbinger," asked Dany. "A sign of wroth and ruin."
The Second Sons were the first to return, eight days after the queen sent forth her summons . Dany was so pleased to see his leathery brown face that she hugged him . They laughed together as Reznak sputtered, but the laughter ceased when Brown Ben said, “I heard talk Your Grace was going to take a husband”
King Cutthroat and Queen Whore accused each other of feasting on the flesh of the slain . The pyramid of Nakloz was despoiled and set aflame by those who claimed Kraznys mo Naklez was to blame for all our woes .
The legions of New Ghis came pouring into Astapor, followed by the Yunkai’i and the sellswords on their horses . Queen Whore died fighting them with a curse upon her lips . King Cutthroat yielded and was thrown into a fighting pit, to be torn apart by starving dogs .
Dany thought, a healer, scholar, and a priest . "You will be safe in Meereen," she told the Astapori . She knows I lie, the queen thought .
The Shavepate disagreed: "If you had taken the Unsullied south to Hazzat, the Sons of the Harpy—“ I know. It is Eroeh all over again.” “Your Grace could not have known—” “I am the queen. It was my place to know.” “What is done is done,” said Reznak mo Rezna .
"You want me to loot Meereen and flee? No, I will not do that. Grey Worm, are my freedmen ready for battle?" Reznak shrank away from her, flinching from the fury .
Daenerys looked at the faces of the men around her. The Shavepate, scowling. Ser Barristan, with his lined face and sad blue eyes . Brown Ben, white-haired, grizzled, tough as old leather .
Dany rose, brushed past Brown Ben, and climbed the steps to the sweet solitude of her terrace . "We’ll need your Second Sons to scout our enemies. Where they are, how fast they are advancing, how many men they have," "Of course. Ser Barristan will see to it." "Might be we could get some o’ them to come over," "Buy them, why not?" Dany said .
Meereen from Astapor was smudged and hazy with the smoke of the Red City’s passing . The old rhyme rang in her head, but Eroeh’s features kept turning into smoke . When Daenerys finally turned away, Ser Barristan stood near her, wrapped in his white cloak .
Ser Barristan prayed, you took Khal Drogo, who was my sun-and-stars. You took our valiant son before he drew a breath. You have had your blood of me. Help me now, I pray you. Give me the wisdom to see the path ahead and the strength to do what I must to keep my children safe.
She saw the eyeless faces again, staring out at her from sockets weeping blood . Then the towers by the sea, crumbling as the dark tide came sweeping over them, rising from the depths . It would not be enough to say the girl was fleeing. He would want more, he would want the when and where, and she did not have that for him .
Melisandre had seen his danger before, had tried to warn the boy of it . Enemies all around him, daggers in the dark. He would not listen until it was too late . It was an art, and like all arts it demanded mastery, discipline, study. Pain. There was no one, even in her order, who had her skill at seeing the secrets half-revealed and half-concealed within the sacred flames .
Devan had taken great pride in serving as a king’s squire . It had wounded him when Stannis commanded him to remain at Castle Black . The four eldest sons of Davos Seaworth had perished in the battle on the Blackwater .
Devan was quick and smart and able too, which was more than could be said about most of her attendants . He had left a dozen of his men behind to serve her when he marched south, but most of them were useless . One man had been blinded by a blow to his head in the battle by the Wall, another lamed when his falling horse crushed his legs . Three of her guard were geldings that Stannis had castrated for raping wildling women .
Melisandre had spent the night in her chair by the fire, as she often did . With Stannis gone, her bed saw little use, and she feared to dream . She would sooner sit bathed in the ruddy glow of her red lord’s blessed flames, her cheeks flushed by the wash of heat as if by a lover’s kisses . Devan fed fresh logs to the fire until the flames leapt up again .
It was Jon Snow she needed, not fried bread and bacon, but it was no use sending Devan to the lord commander . It was his mistake, the false humility of youth that is itself a sort of pride . The boy was not entirely naive, but washed herself and changed her robes .
Melisandre had the knowledge to make more powders, but lacked many rare ingredients . She was stronger at the Wall, stronger even than in Asshai . With such sorceries at her command, she should soon have no more need of the feeble tricks of alchemists and pyromancers .
The Old Pomegranate thought that I was spying on him and announced that he would not suffer murderers listening to their councils . The wildling sat on the edge of the window, slid his dagger from its sheath . It was the first thing she had learned to see, back when she was still half a child, a slave girl bound for life to the great red temple.
Lord Snow's rangers will return before the day is done, with their blind and bloody eyes . The wildling’s own eyes narrowed; Grey eyes, brown eyes; Melisandre could see the color change with each pulse of the ruby . Snow’s been assuming the free folk would turn to Tormund to lead them, because that’s what he would do .
The Night’s Watch takes no part. You can do what he cannot . “I saw water. Deep and blue and still, with thin coat of ice just forming on it.” “Long Lake. What else did you see around this girl?” Melisandre closed her eyes .
Lord Snow had sent a dozen archers to the top of the Wall . The lord commander had preceded her through the ice, but they made way for her .
It was cold and dark beneath the ice, in the narrow tunnel that crooked and slithered through the Wall . Morgan went before her with a torch and Merrel came behind her with an axe . Melisandre made it a point to keep a pair of guards about her everywhere she went .
Jon Snow grasped the spear that bore Garth Greyfeather’s head and wrenched it violently from the ground . “This is not the time and place to pick at that wound. Not here, my lord. Not now.” Only then did Snow seem to notice Melisandre .
Ser Denys Mallister says he saw fires in mountains on far side of Gorge . “Some may.” Could the skulls in her vision signifie this bridge? “I saw towers by the sea, submerged beneath a black and bloody tide. That is where the heaviest blow will fall.” “Eastwatch?” Melisandre had seen Eastwatch-by-the-Sea with King Stannis .
Alf of Runnymudd was one of the first to exchange his seven false gods for the truth of R’hllor . “Garth’s too clever for them wildlings.” “How many?” Mully asked. “Black Jack, Hairy Hal, and Garth.” “Lord Snow,” Melisandre said quietly .
Jon Snow tensed. “You.” “Lord Snow.” The wildling grinned at them through a mouth of brown and broken teeth . The ruby on his wrist glimmered in the morning light like a dim red star . “I could visit you as easily, my lord. Those guards at your door are a bad jape.” He chewed, swallowed .
Melisandre touched the ruby at her neck and spoke a word . The wildling heard one word, the crow another, and the wisps of light and shadow around him writhed and faded . But the widow’s peak dissolved .
The bones remember. The strongest glamors are built of such things . A dead man’s boots, a hank of hair and a bag of fingerbones . They need never know how difficult it had been, or how much it had cost her .
Lord Snow heard the girls barking as they raced for home . The drum of hoofbeats echoing off flagstone jerked him to his feet, chains rattling . It was hard to move quickly that way, but he tried as best he could, hopping and clanking from his pallet .
Red Jeyne slammed into his chest and knocked him off his feet . Helicent caught his left hand between her teeth and worried it so fiercely Reek feared he might lose two more fingers . Two dozen horsemen had gone out and two dozen had returned .
The head struck his maimed hands, bounced away from the stumps of his fingers, and landed at his feet, raining maggots . Reek hurried to the horse, leaving the severed head for the dogs . Little Walder had become Lord Ramsay’s best boy and grew more like him every day .
Big Walder pulled the saddle off his grey, so the other stablehands would not hear . “An old man we met on the road, is all. He was driving an old nanny goat and four kids.” “His lordship slew him for calling him Lord Snow.” Reek nodded, his chains clinking as he wrestled with Blood’s saddle straps .
Lord Ramsay commanded that a feast be laid to celebrate his return to Barrow-ton . Reek had heard Stout’s servants muttering at how the Bastard and his men were eating through the winter stores . He was the only man in the hall who did not watch the three dogs fight .
Stout’s old hound never stood a mummer’s chance until his host’s dog was dead . Ben Bones, who liked the dogs better than their master, told Reek they were all named after peasant girls Ramsay had hunted, raped, and killed back . The next litter to come out of the Dreadfort’s kennels would include a Kyra .
Lord Ramsay's men pushed back from the tables, abandoning cups and trenchers . Harwood Stout bowed stiffly and relinquished his hall without a word . Lord Roose found himself alone in the hall with the two Boltons, father and son .
Lord Wyman's litter moves at a snail’s pace ... and of course his lordship's health and girth do not permit him to travel more than a few hours a day, with frequent stops for meals . Lord Pig must have brought half the food in White Harbor with him . "I noticed that as well." "I am not alone in throwing feasts, it would seem."
Barrow-ton is staunch for Bolton largely because she still holds Ned Stark to blame for her husband’s death . "Let her spit on me. The day will come when I’ll set her precious wooden town afire," Ramsay seethed . There were things too hurtful to remember, thoughts almost as painful as Ramsay’s flaying knife.
“Stark’s little wolflings are dead,” said Ramsay, sloshing some ale into his cup . The sooner they turn up, the sooner I kill them again.” The elder Bolton sighed . “You never slew Lord Eddard’s sons, those sweet boys we loved so well.” “Good.” “You are mistaken. It is not good. No tales were ever told of me,” Ramsay said .
Lord Rickard has taken Deepwood Motte from the ironmen and restored it to House Glover . Lord Ramsay slammed down his cup, and the dregs of his ale erupted across the tablecloth . “You will plant a son in her,” Roose Bolton said, and she’ll pray that you never come back to her bed .
Stannis is too cautious to come to Barrowton ... but must come to Winterfell . He will summon all his friends and allies when he marches . “You are the Warden of the North. Command them.” “An invitation will accomplish the same thing. Power tastes best when sweetened bycourtesy.” The Lord of the Dreadfort glance at Reek .
Reek leaned close and whispered, “Tell him nothing and remember every word he says. When my father brings you back, I’m going to take another finger. I’ll let you choose which one.” “Why?” he cried, his voice breaking . “He’s not even a man. The way he smells disgusts me.” “Walton, help him mount.” Even with the fetters gone, Reek moved like an old man .
Lord Bolton fell in beside him as they rode out the gate . Bolton’s lips parted just enough to show a quarter inch of teeth . He did not understand .
Reek was born with a curse, the smallfolk said . It was meant to be amusing, but he and Ramsay became inseparable . His lordship looked at the new Reek with eyes as pale and strange as two white moons .
Bolton chuckled. “I know what he said. You’re to spy on me and keep his secrets” Reek echoed. “Has my bastard ever told you how I got him?” Bolton laughed. “Yes, my ... m’lord. You met his mother whilst out riding and were smitten by her beauty.”
a miller’s marriage had been performed without my leave or knowledge . The fox escaped as well, and on our way back to the Dreadfort my favorite courser came up lame . I gave her the mill and had the brother’s tongue cut out, to make sure he did not go running to Winterfell with tales that might disturb Lord Rickard.
Lord Wyman plots betrayal, Whoresbane ... the Umbers are not without a certain low cunning . Ramsay should fear them all, as I do. The next time you see him, tell him to be afraid? Lord Bolton sighed. “His blood is bad. He needs to be leeched. The leeches suck away the bad blood, all the rage and pain. No man can think so full of anger. He is your only son.”
In the Vale, Domeric had enjoyed the company of Redfort’s sons . He wanted a brother by his side, so he rode up the Weeping Water to seek my bastard out . Now his bones lie beneath the Dreadfort with the bones of his brothers, who died still in the cradle .
“I ... would sooner not, m’lord. Please. I have ... wounds, I ... and these clothes, Lord Ramsay gave them to me,” Lord Bolton said, quite patiently . “You are wearing rags, torn and stained and stinking of blood and urine. And thin. You must be cold. We’ll put you in lambswool, soft and warm. Perhaps a fur-lined cloak.” “No,” he insisted, shri
Lord Ramsay played with his hopes all the time . He waved a pale hand, dismissive . "All this is only squabbling over spoils," Lord Bolton said .
Some claimed it was the grave of the First King, who led the First Men to Westeros . Others argued that it must be some King of the Giants who was buried there . A few had even been known to say it was no barrow, just a hill .
TYRION The Selaesori Qhoran was seven days from Volantis when Penny emerged from her cabin . It was dusk and the red priest had lit his nightfire in the great iron brazier amidships . He wore scarlet robes embroidered at sleeve and hem and collar with orange satin flames.
Tyrion Lannister had no use for any god, but on this ship it was wise to show a certain respect for red R’hllor . The Selaesori Qhoran was a wallowing tub of five hundred tons, with a deep hold, high castles fore and aft . Tyrion had never seen an uglier ship. Her crew was no prettier . Three of the mates and more than three-quarters of the crew were fervent worship
Tyrion saw Penny from the wooden stair that led down beneath the sterncastle . She had her dog with her, the big grey hound she rode in the mock jousts . The crew of the Selaesori Qhoran had been pleased enough when he first came on board .
Tyrion squatted across from him and warmed his hands against the night’s chill . He was staring into the flickering flames, lost in some vision . Tyrion had chosen him to bring the faith of R’hllor to Daenerys Targaryen .
“Perhaps it was Penny you saw. We’re almost of a size.” “No, my friend.” “Did you see how long it will take us to reach Meereen?” “You are eager to behold the world’s deliverer?” Yes and no. “For me, it is all about the olives. Though I fear I may grow old and die before I taste one. I could dog-paddle faster than we’re sailing. You of Westeros might say steward or
Ser Jorah sat up in his hammock and found Mormont stretched out in the lower one . "The girl finally poked her nose abovedecks," Tyrion told him . It would not surprise me if the poor creature wasn’t sneaking up to jump over the side and drown herself"
Slaver’s Bay was the place where whores were made . Mormont should have bought one for himself . A pretty slave girl might have done wonders to improve his temper .
Tyrion slept badly at the best of times, and this was far from that . On moonless nights the water was as black as maester’s ink, from horizon to horizon . But when he looked at it too long Tyrion found himself musing on how easy it would be to slip over the gunwale and drop down into that darkness.
Tyrion was reading the slave girl's account of the day she and her sister were taken by slavers when Penny entered the galley . The galley where he took his meals was a cramped and uncomfortable space . As much as Tyrion enjoyed sniggering at that, he had come to prefer taking his meals alone .
“No, I choked on a fish bone once, I can’t eat fish.” “Have some wine, then.” Tyrion filled a cup and slid it toward her . “Do you mean to spend your whole life running away?” Tyrion asked before she could slip back out the door .
Tyrion had said the same words to her before, back in Volantis, but she was so far gone in grief back there that he doubted she had heard them . Tyrion said it was for the best, before someone wondered if we’d had some part in the king’s death and decided to torture us to find out . He was old, so his hands were not as deft as they had been, and sometimes he dropped his balls and chase them across the square .
Jorah Mormont's accusation stung, coming so hard on heels of his words . “His blood is on my sister’s hands, and the hands of the brutes who killed him. My hands are crusted with old blood, aye. Call me kinslayer, and you won’t be wrong. Kingslayer, I’ll answer to that one as well. I have killed mothers, fathers, nephews, men and women, kings and whores.
Tyrion Lannister heard reports of a dwarf jester at the seat of the Dornish Lord Fowler and a female dwarf amongst the silent sisters . His own sweet sister had told him of the last, even offering to find him a bitch in heat if he cared to try it out . When he asked politely if she were referring to herself, Cersei had thrown a cup of wine in his face .
Tyrion was underfoot amid-ships, so he climbed the forecastle and hunkered down . The cog went up and down, bucking more wildly than any horse he’d ever ridden . By the time the storm broke, evening was upon them and Tyrion Lannister was soaked through to the smallclothes .
The dwarf lingered in the galley after supper, celebrating his survival by sharing a few tots of black tar rum with the ship’s cook . Tyrion won the first, then lost the other two . He decided that he’d had enough and stumbled back up on deck to clear his head of rum and elephants alike . From behind, she looked as small and vulnerable as a child .
Penny sounded like the sweet girl she was seventeen, eighteen, no more than nineteen . Tyrion tried not to wince, but she turned her head away and gazed out across the sea . "Find yourself some likely orphan boy," Tyrion suggested .
Oppo rode the dog for the dragon queen and come away with your weight in gold . The first time they see us they laugh and laugh, but by the fourth or fifth time, they know what we’re going to do before we do it . We make the most coin in the big cities, but I always liked the little towns the best.
Daenerys has a kind heart and a generous nature, Tyrion thought . The next day Tyrion encountered her and her spotted sow amidships . Penny gave Tyrion some acorns, and he let Pretty eat them from his hand . They began to take their meals together .
A dull red glow lit the sky to the northeast, the color of a blood bruise . Tyrion had never seen a bigger moon . Monstrous, swollen, it looked like it had swallowed the sun and woken with a fever .
Gerion Lannister had set sail for Valyria when Tyrion was eighteen . The men Lord Tywin sent to seek after him had traced his course as far as Volantis . It is not wise for mortals to look too deeply at those fires, my friend says .
Valyria was destroyed in a day, the Lands of the Long Summer scorched and drowned and blighted . It was written that every hill for five hundred miles had split asunder to fill the air with ash and smoke and fire, blazes so hot and hungry that even the dragons in the sky were engulfed and consumed . The proudest city in all the world was gone in an instant .
The moon was fat and full. Stars wheeled across a black sky . Rain fell and froze, and tree limbs snapped from the weight of the ice . Bran and Meera made up names for those who sang the song of earth .
Meera Reed had asked him his true name, but in his dreams he was still a three-eyed crow . "Your uncle may have been named for me. Some are, still. Not so many as before. Men forget. Only the trees remember." "Most of him has gone into the tree," she said .
"Maybe you could be greenseers too," says Meera . "Most are not so blessed. The gods gave me only greendreams," says Jojen . A murder of ravens erupted from the hillside, screaming their sharp cries .
The singers made Bran a throne of his own, like the one Lord Brynden sat, white weirwood flecked with red, dead branches woven through living roots . They placed it in the great cavern by the abyss, where the black air echoed to the sound of running water far below . The lord’s words were accompanied by a faint rustling of wood and leaf, a slight twisting of his head 
The song of the river suddenly grew louder, the torches burned a little brighter than before, and the air was full of strange smells . When he tried to speak it came out in a scream, and his first flight ended when he crashed into a wall and ended back inside his own broken body . “Someone else was in the raven,” Lord Brynden said, once he had returned to his own skin .
Old Nan had told him the same story once, but when asked Robb if it was true, his brother laughed and asked him if he believed in grumkins too . I bet that he could learn to fly too, him and Arya and Sansa, even baby Rickon and Jon Snow . Some days Bran wondered if all of this wasn’t just some dream . Maybe he had fallen asleep out in the snows and dreamed himself a safe, warm place .
Those you call the children of the forest have eyes as golden as the sun, but once in a great while one is born amongst them with eyes as red as blood . By these signs do the gods mark those they have chosen to receive the gift . The chosen ones are not robust, and their quick years upon the earth are few .
Dead ravens sat on bare brown branches, wings crusted with ice . A snow bear crashed through the brush, huge and skeletal, half its head sloughed away to reveal the skull beneath . Blind white fish swam in the black river, but tasted just as good as fish with eyes once cooked them up . They had cheese and milk from the goats that shared the caves with the singers .
Little wise men of the forest would have been closer compared to men . They had nut-brown skin, dappled like a deer’s with paler spots, and large ears . Their hands had only three fingers and a thumb, with sharp black claws instead of nails .
Meera and Jojen decided to go see the river, despite Leaf’s cautions . "Hodor could never make the climb with you on his back. I’m sorry, Bran.” He remembered a time when no one could climb as good as him, not even Robb or Jon. Part of him wanted to shout at them for leaving him, and another part wanted to cry.
Summer dug up a severed arm, black and covered with hoarfrost, its fingers opening and closing as it pulled itself across the frozen snow . Only then did the arm remember it was dead . As a raven he flew with the murder, circling the hill at sunset .
Bran the broken boy, Brandon of House Stark, prince of a lost kingdom . He had thought the three-eyed crow would be a sorcerer, a wise old wizard who could fix his legs, but that was some stupid child’s dream . I am too old for such fancies, he told himself .
Jojen Reed grew more sullen and solitary, to his sister’s distress . He would stand there for hours, looking out over the forest, wrapped in furs yet shivering all the same . “He’s being brave,” said Bran .
The moon was a crescent, thin and sharp as the blade of a knife . The days marched past, one after the other, each shorter than the one before .
"Your blood makes you a greenseer," said Lord Brynden . It had a bitter taste, though not so bitter as acorn paste . The first spoonful was the hardest to get down. The second tasted better. The third was almost sweet .
The greatsword Ice lay across Lord Eddard Stark’s lap, and he was cleaning the blade with an oilcloth. “Winterfell,” Bran whispered. “Who’s there?” He asked, turning ... and Bran, frightened, pulled away . From far away Leaf looked almost a girl, no older than Bran or one of his sisters, but close at hand she seemed far older. She claimed to have seen two hundred years.
Lord Brynden: "A man must know how to look before he can hope to see" The past remains the past. We can learn from it, but we cannot change it"
Men live their lives trapped in an eternal present, between the mists of memory and the sea of shadow that is all we know of the days to come . Some moths live their whole lives in a day, yet to them that little span of time must seem as long as years and decades do to us . A weirwood will live forever if left undisturbed .
Lord Eddard Stark looked long at the weirwood, frowning, but he did not speak . He wanted to reach out and touch him, but all that he could do was watch and listen . I am inside the heart tree, looking out of its red eyes, but the irvine cannot talk, so I can’t .
Eddard Stark dissolved, like mist in a morning sun . Now two children danced across the godswood, hooting at one another . If the girl was Arya, the boy was Bran himself, and he had never worn his hair so long .
lords Bran glimpsed were tall and hard, stern men in fur and chain mail . Some wore faces he remembered from statues in the crypts, but they were gone before he could put a name to them . A white-haired woman stepped toward them through a drift of dark red leaves, a bronze sickle in her hand . The woman grabbed the captive by the hair, hooked the sickle round his throat .
Jon Snow stood looking down upon the haunted forest . A north wind swirled through the trees below, sending thin white plumes of snow crystals flying from the highest branches . It was not the living that he feared. It may be a moon’s turn before we have another chance as good .
Castle Black needs its own glass gardens, like the ones at Winterfell . The best glass came from Myr, but a good clear pane was worth its weight in spice . What we need is gold, which would be the way to go about it .
“Too long. This is not wise.” “Unwise,” said Jon, “but necessary. These men are about to pledge their lives to the Night’s Watch, joining a brotherhood that stretches back in an unbroken line for thousands of years. The words matter, and so do these traditions. They bind us all together, highborn and low, young and old, base and noble. They make us brothers.” “Aye, my lord,” said the Lord Steward. “I promise you, we
Ghost bounded toward the trees, slipped between two white-cloaked pines, and vanished in a cloud of snow . His men fell in around them, the hooves of their garrons breaking through the icy crust to the softer snow beneath . Jon sent Tom Barleycorn ahead to scout for them, though the way to the white grove was oft trod and familiar.
Horse had been born and raised in Mole’s Town, Arron and Emrick came from Fair Isle, Satin from the brothels of Oldtown at the other end of Westeros . All of them were boys. Leathers and Jax were older men, well past forty, sons of the haunted forest, with sons and grandsons of their own . Iron Emmett said they all were ready, or as ready as they were ever going to be .
There were dangers in trifling with wildling women, Jon Snow said . A man can own a woman, Ygritte had told him once . The Long Barrow will be all women, aside from the commander and chief steward .
Sigorn blames him for his father's death, I fear . He was bred and trained to give orders, not to take them . Trouble is the lord commander’s lot, Jon might have said .
The riders crossed a frozen stream, between two jagged rocks armored in ice, then followed a game trail to the northeast . Jon Snow sometimes felt as if he and the direwolf were one, even awake . The great white wolf appeared first, shaking off the snow . A few moments later Tom was there .
The shafts of sunlight had vanished when the last thin slice of the sun was swallowed beneath the western woods . The pink snow drifts were going white again, the color leaching out of them as the world darkened . There were nine, all roughly of the same age and size . Each one had a face carved into it, and no two faces were alike .
The fire in the center of the grove was a small sad thing, ashes and embers and a few broken branches burning slow and smoky . Only one of the wildlings reacted when Jon stepped from the brush . The child began to wail, clutching at his mother’s ragged cloak, raising her eyes and gasping .
Jon Snow was about to reach for Longclaw when Leathers spoke, from the far side of the grove . Leathers pointed at the trees, ground his teeth, and dropped his maul . Thenn in battered bronze, and one of the Hornfoot folk, his bare feet so badly frostbitten that Jon knew at a glance he would never walk again .
Jon Snow sank to one knee in the snow. Gods of my fathers, protect these men . "I shall take no wife, hold no lands, father no children," the recruits promised . “I shall wear no crowns and win no glory. I shall live at my post.”
Jon Snow was the first onto his feet. He gave Horse a hand to pull him up. The wind was rising. It was time to go. The journey back took much longer than the journey to the grove . The Hornfoot man was frightened of the horses, however, and preferred to limp along .
The Thief, the free folk called it. It was a long, slow, endless trek . The best time to steal a woman was when it was in the Moonmaid . Big Liddle unslung his own warhorn and gave answer .
The Watch has lost too many good men. Jon took Leathers aside. “Take charge of him. See that he is fed and find him a warm place by the fire.” “M’lord.” The living wildlings Jon sent off to have their wounds and frostbites tended. Some hot food and warm clothes would restore most of them, though the Hornfoot man was like to lose both feet.
The Night’s Watch was sworn to take no side in the quarrels and conflicts of the realm . Jon Snow was not sure how he felt about what he had just read . It was painful just to think of it, much less say the words aloud .
Robert Baratheon would have seen that at once and moved swiftly to secure the castle . It was not his place to advise the king, but ... He glanced at the letter again . I will save your sister if I can and the addendum and find a better match for her than Ramsay Snow .
Jon Snow had dreamed of leading men to glory just as King Daeron had . Now he was a man grown and the Wall was his, yet all he had were doubts . He could not even seem to conquer those .
The Astapori stumbled after them in a ghastly procession that grew longer with every yard they crossed . They called to her in the dialects of Astapor, Lys, and Old Volantis, in guttural Dothraki and the liquid syllables of Qarth .
The Astapori had no place to go . Many were sick, most were starved, and all were doomed to die . Daenerys dare not open her gates to let them in. She had sent them healers, Blue Graces and spell-singers .
“Man must not eat the flesh of man,” said Aggo . “They’re past cursing,” said Symon Stripeback . The Unsullied have no fear of corpses .
“The Unsullied are your best fighters. Let the Astapori bury their own dead.” “They are too feeble,” said Symon Stripeback. “More food might make them stronger.” “This is far enough,” the queen decided.
Aggo touched his horse with his heels and galloped off . The Astapori are being fed, as you commanded. There’s no more we can do for the poor wretches. We should repair back to the city.
Grey Worm knelt beside the queen and said, “This one would be of help” Before midday a dozen fires were burning . Columns of greasy black smoke rose up to stain a merciless blue sky . The queen had not known that the eunuchs had a goddess of their own .
Rakharo had grown almost half a foot during his time away from Meereen . He towered over Aggo and Jhogo now, as her handmaids had noticed . “Now be quiet. I need to bathe.” She had never felt more soiled . A cool wind was blowing on her terrace .
"I am to dine with Hizdahr," Dany sighed . "I have almost forgotten," she said . The priestess and the seneschal were happy to see her garbed in a tokar .
"The washing of the feet is hallowed by tradition. It signifies that you shall be your husband’s handmaid. The wedding garb is fraught with meaning too. The queen of the rabbits must not be wed without her floppy ears . The more pearls Your Worship wears, the more healthy children she will bear"
"I shall marry Hizdahr in the Temple of the Graces" Dany pushed the thought aside. It was not worthy of her. "As you wish," she sighed. "One more small matter, Your Worship," Reznak said . "No ruler can make a people good," Selmy had told her.
Meereen has been steeped in foolish old traditions for too long . He kissed her hand and said, “Daenerys, my queen, I will gladly wash you from head to heel if that is what I must do to be your king and consort” Hizdahr crossed his long legs. “Yunkai will give us peace, but for a price. The disruption of the slave trade has caused great injury throughout the civilized world.
The queen was framing her response when she heard a step behind her . Her cooks had promised her to serve the noble Hizdahr’s favorite meal, dog in honey . When she turned to look, it was Ser Barristan standing there, freshly bathed and clad in white, his longsword at his side .
Daario Naharis took a knee before her, Dany’s heart gave a lurch . His hair was matted with dried blood, and on his temple a deep cut glistened red and raw . “You’re hurt,” she gasped. “This?” Daario touched his temple. “A crossbowman tried to put a quarrel through my eye, but I outrode it. I was hurrying home to my queen, to bask in the warmth of her smile
Your Stormcrows had to cut their way through all of them. There is more, and worse. The Yunkai’i are marching their host up the coast road . They have elephants, a hundred, armored and towered . Two more Ghiscari legions took ship at Astapor .
Daario’s announcement had sparked an uproar . Reznak was wailing, the Shavepate was muttering darkly . Strong Belwas thumped his scarred belly with his fist and swore to eat Brown Ben’s heart .
Dany took Daario Naharis up the steps to her bedchamber, where Irri washed his cut with vinegar and Jhiqui wrapped it in white linen . When that was done she sent her handmaids off as well . “Only if you do the same.” He kissed her. His hair smelled of blood and smoke and horse .
Theon Greyjoy thought as he draped a fur-trimmed cloak about her shoulders . The bride raised her eyes. Brown eyes, shining in the candlelight . Talk like that will get you killed, or worse . I will be a good wife to him, and t-true. I ... I will please him and give him sons .
Lord Ramsay is a ... a sweet man, and kindly. Please him, andhe will be good to you. Be a good wife.” She squeezed his arm . “If we ran away, I could be your wife, or your ... your whore ... whatever you wanted. You could be my man.” A man would help her .
Theon Greyjoy had grown up with Arya Stark . Theon would have known an imposter . If he was seen to accept Bolton’s feigned girl as arya . They would have no grounds to question her legitimacy .
Winterfell was warmer in the godswood, strange to say . The paths were treacherous with black ice, and hoarfrost sparkled in the moonlight on the broken panes of the Glass Gardens .
Theon Greyjoy had soaked his bruises in the hot springs after many a session in the yard with Robb and Jory and Jon Snow . The first time he had ever kissed a girl had been here . He had never seen the godswood like this, though—grey and ghostly, filled with warm mists and floating lights .
Mists were so thick that only the nearest trees were visible . Candles flickered beside the wandering path and back amongst the trees . It felt like some strange underworld, some timeless place between the worlds . Is the battle yet to come, or has it been fought and lost?
Ramsay Bolton stood beneath them, clad in high boots of soft grey leather and a black velvet doublet slashed with pink silk and glittering with garnet teardrops . “Who comes before the god?” Theon answered. “Arya of House Stark comes here to be wed. A woman grown and flowered, trueborn and noble, she comes to beg the blessings of the gods. This is your chance, he thought. Tell them now. Shout out your name before
Theon undid the cloak that Theon had slipped about his bride’s shoulders moments before . It was emblazoned with the direwolf of House Stark . On its back was the flayed man of the Dreadfort done in stiff red leather, grim and grisly .
Winterfell was full of ghosts for Theon Greyjoy . Ice crunched beneath his boots, and a sudden gust pushed back his hood . Tents filled the yard, half-buried in the snow .
Winterfell had been crawling with squatters when Bolton’s van had reached the castle . More than two dozen had been driven at spearpoint from nests they had made amongst the castle’s half-ruined keeps and towers . The boldest and most truculent had been hanged, the rest put to work .
Lady Dustin had insisted that she should have custody of Lady Arya until such time as she was wed, but now that time was done . By this marriage Ramsay would be Lord of Winterfell . She belongs to Ramsay now. She said the words .
Theon had assembled Stark’s people the night Bran and Rickon fled the castle . Theon was Reek then, standing at his side, whispering that he should flay a few of his captives to make them tell him where the boys had gone . I had known them all for half my life, and not one of them would help me .
Lord Manderly had brought musicians from White Harbor, but none were singers . Abel was plucking at his lute and singing "Fair Maids of Summer" He calls himself a bard, but his voice was passable, his playing fair .
Wrong, it’s wrong, as wrong as her eyes. The arms of House Poole were framed by a grey tressure . Other men turned away at the sight of him. One spat. And why not? He was the traitor who had taken Winterfell by treachery .
Some were camp brides, bound to the soldiers they followed with words whispered to one god or another but doomed to be forgotten once the war was done . They would warm a man’s bed by night, patch the holes in his boots at morning, cook his supper come dusk, and loot his corpse after the battle . And even such as these made mock of Theon Turncloak .
The Lord of White Harbor furnished the food and drink, black stout and yellow beer and wines red and gold and purple . The wedding guests gorged on cod cakes and winter squash, hills of neeps and great round wheels of cheese, on smoking slabs of mutton and beef ribs charred almost black .
Manderly devoured six portions, two from each of the three pies . Fat Walda Frey could not match his gluttony, though she managed three slices herself . When she raised her head and looked at Theon Greyjoy, he could see the fear behind her big brown eyes .
Theon was not certain. His sons had been fat as well, but they had not shamed themselves in battle . Lady Dustin chuckled, and when he does, the fat man will piss himself . The manderlys ran from the south once, hounded from their lands .
Roose has no feelings, you see. You and me, these Freys, Lord Manderly, his plump new wife, even his bastard, we are but his playthings . Lady Dustin held out her wine cup and let him fill it, then gestured for him to do the same for Theon .
Roose Bolton had brought them all to Winterfell to take charge of Luwin’s ravens . Before the war, Medrick had served Lord Hornwood, Rhodry Lord Cerwyn, and young Henly Lord Slate . Every great lord has his maester, every lesser aspires to one .
Maester Walys was his grey rat’s name . Before he forged his chain, his secret father and his friends wasted no time dispatching him to Winterfell to fill Lord Rickard’s ears with poisoned words as sweet as honey . When they fail, they console us in our grief and we are grateful for that as well.
Roose Bolton rose to his feet, pale eyes shining in the torchlight . Lord Manderly was so drunk he required four strong men to help him from the hall . “Singer, give us a song about the Rat Cook,” he was muttering .
Lady Dustin was amongst the last to bestir herself . When he stumbled from the table, he knocked a flagon from the hands of a serving girl . A hand grabbed his shoulder, five fingers hard as iron digging deep into his flesh .
A fire was burning in the hearth, a candle on the bedside table . Lord Ramsay was seated in it when they entered . He could feel his missing fingers cramping, two on his left hand, one on his right hand .
Theon grabbed a handful of the bride’s skirt, so that was where he slid the blade in . Steel whispered through wool and silk with a faint, soft sound . Theon had to grab her arm to hold her still . When it was done the bride stood naked, her bridal finery a heap of white and grey rags about her feet .
Lord Ramsay sat beside his bride, slid his hand along her inner thigh, then jammed two fingers up inside her . The girl let out a gasp of pain. “You’re dry as an old bone.” Ramsay pulled his hand free and slapped her face . “I ... do you mean ... m’lord, I have no ... I ...”
Areo Hotah watched the Sand Snakes, each at a different table . He watched the lords and ladies, the serving men, the old blind seneschal, and the young maester Myles, with his silky beard and servile smile .
Ser Balon Swann was bigger across the chest, burlier, his arms thick with muscle . His snowy cloak was clasped at the throat by two swans on a silver brooch . The man who wore them looked a fighter too. He will not charge into my axe the way Ser Arys did .
Lady Tyene Sand wore a gown of yellow silk so sheer and fine that the candles shone right through it to reveal the spun gold and jewels beneath . Nymeria was least dangerous when nearly naked . She was sure to have a dozen blades concealed about her person .
Dorne left it to Ricasso, his blind seneschal, to propose the toast . The wine was Dornish strongwine, dark as blood and sweet as vengeance .
Areo Hotah did wonder why he had chosen to release the ladies Obara, Nymeria, and Tyene from their lonely cells in the Spear Tower . When a serving girl knelt to wipe up the spilled wine, Obara excused herself and went after her .
Seven courses were served in honor of the seven gods and the seven brothers of the Kingsguard . The soup was made with eggs and lemons, the long green peppers stuffed with cheese and onions . There were lamprey pies, capons glazed with honey, a whiskerfish from the bottom of the Greenblood that was so big it took four serving men to carry it to table .
Doran Martell took no notice, but his daughter did . She touched the pin that clasped his cloak, with its quarreling swans .
Dorne had seemed a queer place to him as well when first he came here with his own princess, many years ago . The bearded priests had drilled him on the Common Speech of Westeros before they sent him forth, but the Dornishmen all spoke too quickly for him to understand . At Sunspear, neither Princess Myrcella nor Ser Arys Oakheart was on hand to greet them.
King Tommen has been pining for his sister and would like Princess Myrcella to return to court for a short visit . "Prince Trystane would be welcome in King’s Landing as well," said Prince Doran .
The Water Gardens are my favorite place in this world, ser. Daenerys was her sister to King Daeron the Good . It was her marriage that made Dorne part of the Seven Kingdoms . She filled the gardens with laughing children .
Obara Sand rolled the prince’s chair from Sunspear’s feast hall to his solar . Both of his knees were red and swollen, and his toes were almost purple . Maester Caleotte hurried behind on slippered feet .
Ser Gregor's head still clutched in his soft pink hands . Obara Sand plucked the skull from him and held it at arm’s length . Cersei Lannister will be exposed as a liar before all the Seven Kingdoms .
Robert Baratheon, Amory Lorch, and now Gregor Clegane are all those who had a hand in murdering Elia and her children . "The man died at the hand of his own son," Lady Nym snapped back . “Ser Gregor does look lonely,” said Tyene .
Ellaria Sand laid her hand on the Mountain’s head . “I saw your father die. Here is his killer. I ask again, where does it end?” said Obara .
Lady Nym said, “I know she loved our father well, but it is plain she never understood him.” The prince gave her a curious look . The princess flushed, and Hotah saw a spasm of anger pass across her father’s face . “That was praise,” Obara Sand insisted .
“He will if he hears it from Myrcella,” Arianne insisted . “We could kill him, to be sure,” said Tyene, “but then we would need to kill the rest of his party too,” Hotah could see his leg trembling underneath the blanket .
Oberyn was ever the viper. Deadly, dangerous, unpredictable. No man dared tread on him . But it is the grass that hides him from his enemies and shelters him until he strikes . Obara, rusted nails and boiled leather, with her angry, close-set eyes and rat-brown hair .
Areo Hotah would not have believed it possible to shock the Sand Snakes . “They are sworn to obey, just as my captain is,” the prince said . The invitation Cersei sent us is a ruse .
Prince Doran will hear Myrcella's story and send a raven to his queen . If he is the man I judge, Swann will not be able to refuse . The time is not yet come for Dorne to openly defy the Iron Throne .
Areo Hotah remained as well, as was his place, Arianne said . "You are my heir, the future of Dorne. Your place is by my side. Soon enough, you’ll have another task," Prince Doran shared .
JON Val waited by the gate in the predawn cold, wrapped up in a bearskin cloak so large it might well have fit Sam . “You gave her a blind horse?” Mully and Dolorous Edd stood with her, a pair of unlikely guards . The horse may be half-blind, but I am not,” Val said .
The moon was half-full. “Look for me on the first day of the full moon.” “I will.” Do not fail me, he thought, or Stannis will have my head. “Do I have your word that you will keep our princess closely?” the king had promised, and Jon had promised that he would. “I am the sword that guards the realm of men,” Jon reminded himself .
Jon Snow drew back and said, “The only thanks I want is—” “Tormund Giantsbane. Aye.” Val pulled up the hood of her bearskin . “You have my word. I did not kill him.” It is too cold and dark to play, and the hour is too late .
A sword without a hilt is better than an empty hand when foes are all around you . "I don’t care what she says," muttered Dolorous Edd, as Val vanished behind a stand of soldier pines . “Aye, m’lord. Usually I’m right.”
Wildlings are wind, and the wind is always blowing at the Wall. Come.” It was still dark when Jon returned to his chambers behind the armory . The big white direwolf was gone more oft than not of late . He wondered if they would ever see a spring .
Jon could see it in his eyes, the tightness around his mouth, the flush to those round cheeks . “We broke our fast in the commons,” said Bowen Marsh. “Perhaps some wine?” said Jon .
Wun Wun was very little like the giants in Old Nan’s tales . He ate no meat at all, though he was a holy terror when served a basket of roots and crunching onions and turnips .
Jon Snow spoke with the giant whenever he could, through Leathers or one of the free folk they had brought back from the grove . The giant would lash out violently when threatened, and those huge hands were strong enough to rip a man apart . He reminded Jon of Hodor twice as big, twice as strong, and half as clever .
"Leathers is savage," Jon agreed mildly . "He’s as dangerous with a stone axe as most knights are with castle-forged steel" "He's a wildling," the raven muttered .
"Most like," said Bowen Marsh, stony-faced, "but the men do not like it" "Lord Commander, wights are monstrous, unnatural creatures. Abominations before the eyes of the gods. You ... you cannot mean to try to talk with them?"
“I think not, but I cannot claim to know. Monsters they may be, but they were men before they died. Plainly it remembered who he was and where to find him.” Maester Aemon would have grasped his purpose . Septon Cellador fingered the crystal that hung about his neck and said, “We could all do with a bit more wisdom, I am sure.” Bowen Marsh asked .
Septon Cellador made the sign of the star. Othell Yarwyck grunted. Bowen Marsh said, “Some might call this treason. These are wildlings. Savages, raiders, rapers, more beast than man.” “Tormund is none of those things,” said Jon, “no more than Mance Rayder. But even if every word you said was true, they are still men, Bowen.
Hardhome had been halfway toward becoming a town until the night six hundred years ago when hell had swallowed it . Its people had been carried off into slavery or slaughtered for meat . The wild had reclaimed the site, but rangers claimed the overgrown ruins were haunted by ghouls and demons and burning ghosts with an unhealthy taste for blood .
"And saved the Wall, mayhaps," said Bowen Marsh . He flexed the fingers of his sword hand . "In this world I have no food to feed them," said Jon .
Pretty Pig had been trained to saddle and bridle since she was a piglet . The painted wooden armor clattered as Pretty trotted across the deck . He felt almost like Jaime riding out onto a tourney field with lance in hand .
Jorah Mormont had heard the muttering about how dwarf luck had failed them . Penny’s lot was even worse, since the cook had put about the notion that squeezing a dwarf girl’s breast might be just the thing to win their luck back . It must have been the rum, Tyrion Lannister had discovered .
Tyrion curled into a ball as he dropped, but even so, he hit the deck with a solid thump and bit his tongue so hard he tasted blood . Their laughter seemed sparse and strained compared to the great gales that had greeted Groat’s and Penny’s antics .
Tyrion had learned to despise that man, even if he was the only half-decent cyvasse player on the cog . “I fell off the bloody pig and bit my tongue.” “What could possibly be worse than that?” Penny had vaulted off her dog, a big grey brute called Crunch .
The cog's huge striped sail hung limply from her mast, as it had for days . The boats were small, but the cog was large; towing it was hot, sweaty, exhausting work that left the hands blistered and the back aching, and accomplished nothing . Penny collected her dog and pig and led them both below.
Tyrion plucked at it, wishing for a bit of breeze . Half of it looked to be old paint, layer on layer of it, from a hundred past repaintings . If the sailors took it in their heads to butcher Pretty Pig, neither he nor Penny could hope to stop them . Once Her Grace knows my true worth, she’ll cherish me .
Tyrion asked innocently, wiping bubbles of blood off his broken lip with the back of his hand . "Did you truly expect me to believe you were about the queen’s business in that whorehouse? Defending her from half a world away? Or could it be that your dragon queen sent you from her side? But why would she ... oh, wait, you were spying on her?" Tyrion made a clucking sound.
Tyrion was rinsing out his mouth with rum and water and wincing at the sting when Penny found him . “Oh, are you hurt?” He shrugged. “A bit of blood and a broken tooth.” But I believe I hurt him more. “And him a knight. Sad to say, I would not count on Ser Jorah should we need protection.” “You mustn’t mock him. Don’t you know anything? You must be careful around big people. Be 
"Are you a maid, Penny?" she blushed . "Stay that way. Love is madness, and lust is poison. Keep your maiden-head. You’re less like to find yourself in some dingy brothel on the Rhoyne," he broke off suddenly .
Sailors dashed across decks and hauled on lines as the mates bellowed orders in the tongue of Old Volantis . The wind was blowing from the west, swirling and gusting, clutching at ropes and cloaks like a mischievous child . It was only midday, and the priest gave him a solemn nod .
Tyrion and Penny watched from the forecastle, huddled by the figurehead and holding hands, careful to stay out of the way of captain and crew . The last storm had been thrilling, intoxicating, a sudden squall that had left him feeling cleansed and refreshed . This storm was too big. The seas around them grew rougher. The wind began to howl .
Come-into-my-castle was a game for highborn children, one meant to teach them courtesy, heraldry, and a thing or two about their lord father’s friends and foes . Penny gave a squeak of fright. “That game won’t do,” Tyrion said .
Tyrion let the kiss go on, holding her gently by the shoulders . The Selaesori Qhoran rolled and shuddered around them . She does not want me, no more than I want her .
Penny crawled across the cabin floor on her hands and knees, wrapped her arms around the sow’s head, and murmured reassurance to her . The sight was so grotesque it should have been hilarious, but Tyrion could not even find a smile . Tyrion looked about for his wine cup, but when he found it all the rum had spilled .
Tyrion could hear someone screaming from below, a thin, high voice hysterical with fear . The red priest stood on the forecastle facing the storm, his staff raised above his head as he boomed a prayer . In the space of three heartbeats the little breeze became a howling gale .
Tyrion never saw it, but he heard it . The ship groaned and growled beneath him like a fat man straining to shit . One missed his eye by half an inch, a second found his neck and a third went through his calf, boots and breeches and all .
"Prophecy is like a half-trained mule," he complained to Jorah Mormont . "It looks as though it might be useful, but the moment you trust in it, it kicks you in the head," his mouth twisted . The captain died the following day, the ship’s cook three nights later .
Penny huddled in her cabin with her dog and her pig, and Tyrion brought her food, limping on his bandaged calf and sniffing at the wound by night . Ser Jorah made a point of sharpening his sword each day, honing the point until it gleamed . The three remaining fiery fingers lit the nightfire as the sun went down .
Tyrion slipped from the hammock, yawning, and looked for his boots . He pulled his boots on and climbed on deck to see what the shouting was about . Penny was there before him, her eyes wide with wonder . This time he kissed her ... once on each cheek, once on the brow, and one last one on the mouth .
Lord Bolton had laid by enough wood to keep the fires fed for half a year . Stannis had a place to dry their clothes, snug corners to lie down and sleep . Theon Greyjoy did not join the uproar .
Theon slipped away unseen while Ramsay and his lord father had their attention elsewhere . Every gate was closed and heavily guarded, though; no one was allowed to enter or depart the castle without Lord Bolton’s leave . The nearest thing to a home that remained to him was here, amongst the bones of Winterfell .
Sour Alyn had been saying that Ramsay kept his bride naked and chained to a bedpost, but Theon knew that was only talk . Lord Ramsay wanted his wife clean. “She has no handmaids, poor thing,” he had said to Theon . When Arya had an itch to bed his wife, it fell to Lady Walda or Lady Dustin and fetch hot water from the kitchens .
Jeyne’s tears would lose their savor, and Ramsay would want his Reek again . There would be no hot baths for Reek. He would roll in shit again, forbidden to wash . The best he could hope for was to be returned to the kennels with Ramsay’s girls for company .
A few of the older men spoke of other snowstorms and insisted this was no more than a light dusting compared to what they’d seen in their youth . The riverlanders were aghast. They have no love of snow and cold, these south-ron swords .
Theon was one of the singer’s washerwomen, the tall skinny one, too lean and leathery to be called pretty . "I’ve never seen you smile, not even during your sister’s wedding feast." "Lady Arya is not my sister," Ramsay said .
Abel says ten times as many still could not breach these walls . He jerked to his feet and made his way wordlessly to the doors . But he knew he dare not touch her, in anger or in lust .
A battle was being fought in the yard; Ryswells pelting Barrowton boys with snowballs . They were arming them with spears and shields, putting iron halfhelms on their heads, and arraying them along the inner wall . Ramsay had burned the stables when he sacked Winterfell, so his father had thrown up new ones twice as large as the old .
Theon stood in the doorway of a bedchamber that had once been his own . He visited the ruins of Mikken’s forge and Lady Catelyn’s sept . There was a stair beyond the mews, seldom used; it was there his feet took him .
Winterfell’s defenses remained formidable, even with the moat frozen over . Theon had captured the castle by stealth, sending his best men to scale the walls . Lord Stannis and his men will be just as hungry, though .
Snow fell around him, pale and silent, keeping its own counsel . The only sound was a faint soft sobbing. Jeyne, he thought. It is her, sobbing in her bridal bed . There are ghosts in Winterfell, and I am one of them .
Theon was staring down into the last dregs of his third tankard . Lady Barbrey Dustin swept into the hall and sent two of her sworn swords to bring him to her . Theon had appetite enough to eat a little stew, washed down with ale .
Lady Dustin wore black, as ever, though her sleeves were lined with vair . "Somewhere beneath us are the crypts where the old Stark kings sit in darkness. My men have not been able to find the way down," Theon said . “My lady will want a warm cloak,” Theon cautioned Theon .
Theon had been out hunting that day, riding with Lord Eddard and King Robert, with no hint of dire news that awaited them back at the castle . It took Lady Dustin’s men the better part of half an hour to uncover the entrance, shoveling through the snow and shifting rubble . When they did, the door was frozen shut, her serjeant had to go find an axe before he could pull it open .
Theon and Lady Dustin had always thought of the crypts as cold, and so they seemed in summer, but now as they descended the air grew warmer than above . "The bride weeps," lady Dustin said, as they made their way down, step by step . He put one hand on the wall. "As ... as you say, m’lady." "Roose is not pleased. Tell your bastard that," the Lady of Barrowton said .
Lady Dustin pushed the door open and led them out into a long vaulted tunnel . Shadows slid and shifted a small light in a great darkness . Theon had never felt comfortable in the crypts .
Theon Stark, the Hungry Wolf. My namesake. There are ghosts in Winterfell. And I am one of them. They walked on. Barbrey Dustin’s face seemed to harden with every step . Theon had always heard that the iron in the sword kept the spirits of the dead locked within their tombs .
Robb Stark fought alongside him at the Whispering Wood and Riverrun . Theon put a gloved hand against a pillar. “... I wanted to be one of them ... And never could. We have more in common than you know, my lord. But come.” Three tombs were closely grouped together .
Rickard Stark had great ambitions for House Ryswell . He would have served up my maidenhead to any Stark who happened by, but there was no need . I think Brandon liked the sight as well .
Robert rose and Ned Stark called his banners. I begged my husband not to go. He was a man and full of pride, nothing would serve but that he lead the Barrowton levies himself. I gave him a horse the day he set out, a red stallion with a fiery mane, the pride of my lord father’s herds. He brought his sister’s bones back north, though, and there she rests ... but I mean to
The southron knights rode out in plate and mail, dinted and scarred by the battles they had fought, but still bright enough to glitter when they caught the rising sun . Each knight had his squires, servants, and men-at-arms, glimmering amongst bare brown trunks, grey-green pines and sentinels, drifting of dirty snow . Before them marched the clansmen from the hills; chiefs and champions astr
Grace King Stannis was taking no chances on his prize escaping captivity . He meant to carry her to Winterfell, to display her there in chains for the lords of the north to see, the kraken’s daughter bound and broken . His grandsire had been slain by Robert at Summerhall; somehow this elevated his slayer to godlike prowess in the grandson’s eyes .
Balon Greyjoy had proved the truth of his own words when his first rebellion failed . The kraken bent the knee to stag and direwolf, only to rise again when Robert Baratheon and Eddard Stark were dead . She had done the same when she was dumped before the king . Only nine remained. We ragged nine, Cromm named them .
Bringing down a woman was not like to awe any northmen, if she knew the breed, and her worth as a hostage was less than naught . It might matter some to the wretched ruin of a husband that Euron had inflicted upon her . But there was no explaining such things to Stannis Baratheon .
Ser Justin had opposed it from the start, along with many of the knights and lords who had come with Stannis from the south . But the wolves insisted; Roose Bolton could not be suffered to hold Winterfell, and the Ned’s girl must be rescued from the clutches of his bastard . “We have come as far already. The Lord of Light will blaze a path for us,” said Justin Massey .
Ser Richard Horpe, the knight with the ravaged face and the death’s-head moths on his surcoat, turned to Stannis and said, “Your Grace, your brother—” The king cut him off . “We all know what my brother would do. We will march, and we will free Winterfell ... or die in the attempt.” Whatever doubts his lords might nurse, the common men seemed to have faith in their king.
Alysane of House Mormont, the heir to Bear Island, had big thighs, big breasts, and big hands ridged with callus . Even in sleep she wore ringmail under her furs, boiled leather under that, and an old sheepskin under the leather, turned inside out for warmth . Asha replied that she and the She-Bear were almost of an age .
Asha had been defeated twice at the kingsmoot by her uncle Euron and again at Deepwood Motte by Stannis . More than enough to stamp her as unfit to rule . The kraken’s daughter turned out to be just a woman after all, the captains would say .
Asha would have called them king's men, but the other stormlanders and crownlands men named them queen’s men . Ser Godry Farring was broad-chested and well muscled under his plate and mail . He was also arrogant and vain, it seemed to Asha, hungry for glory, deaf to caution .
A candle had been flickering in her mother’s chamber, but her great carved bed was empty beneath its dusty canopy . Asha asked her keeper, looking down upon the ruin of the woman who had given her birth, a mother who had lost two of her sons . Alysane Mormont replied, gruff as ever .
On Bear Island every child learns to fear krakens rising from the sea . On the third day the forest pressed close around them, and the rutted roads dwindled down to game trails that soon proved to be too narrow for their larger wagons . Asha had come this way before, riding to Winterfell to persuade her brother Theon to abandon his conquest and return with her to Deepwood Motte .
A dozen men were splitting logs to feed the blaze when Asha came limping up with her keepers . Their god was Red R’hllor, and a jealous god he was . They would as gladly burn me as those logs and broken branches .
Ser Justin Massey grasped Asha by the arm and pulled her inside the royal tent . “That was ill judged, my lady,” he told her . Asha remembered Theon as a boy, a shy child who lived in awe of Rodrik and Maron .
the king’s host became a column of snowmen, staggering through knee-high drifts . The southron knights and lordlings struggled, but the men of the northern hills fared better . Their garrons were sure-footed beasts that ate less than palfreys, and much less than the big destriers, and the men who rode them were home in the snow .
On the fifth day of the storm, the baggage train crossed a rippling expanse of waist-high snowdrifts that concealed a frozen pond . When the hidden ice cracked beneath the weight of the wagons, three teamsters and four horses were swallowed up by the freezing water . One was Harwood Fell. His knights pulled him out before he drowned, but not before his lips turned blue and his skin as pale as milk . “The gods of the north have unleash
The king’s host was creeping through the heart of the largest forest in the Seven Kingdoms . Every camp saw fewer fires burning, and those that were lit threw off more smoke than heat . Even the nightfire shrank and grew feeble, to the dismay of the queen’s men .
Two squires from the stormlands stabbed a man-at-arms to death in a quarrel over who would sit closest to the fire . The next night some archers managed to set their tent afire, which had at least the virtue of heating the adjacent tents . Stannis would have none of that. Nor would he heed the queen’s men when they came to urge him to make an offering to their hungry red god .
The baggage train suffered the worst: dead horses, lost men, wayns overturned and broken . Black Donnel Flint and his half-brother Artos only lost one man between them . The Liddles, the Wulls, and the Norreys lost none at all .
Asha's ankle throbbed beneath her weight with every step . The cold will numb it soon enough, she told herself . "Branch swears we are only three days from Winterfell," Ser Horpe said .
Ser Corliss Penny gave the clan chief an incredulous look . “I want to live forever in a land where summer lasts a thousand years. I want a castle in the clouds where I can look down over the world. I would sooner my men die fighting for the Ned’s little girl than alone and hungry in the snow,” said Morgan Liddle .
Asha Greyjoy awoke cramped and cold beneath the pile of sleeping furs . She had never known a woman to snore so loudly, but she had grown used to it . It was the silence that troubled her, and she took some comfort in it now .
Asha crawled out from under her sleeping furs and pushed her way out of the tent . She could see shapes of other tents and lean-tos and the orange glow of the beacon fire burning atop the watchtower, but not the tower itself . The storm had swallowed the rest, but Roose Bolton’s host sat snowbound and unmoving .
Daario Naharis was sleeping as peacefully as a newborn babe . He had a gift for sleeping, he boasted, smiling in that cocksure way of his . "A warrior who cannot sleep soon has no strength to fight," he said .
The candle flickered one last time and drowned in its own wax . Dany wrapped her arms around her captain and pressed herself against his back . He kissed him on his shoulder. He smiled a lazy smile . “I do not want this night to end.” “No? And why is that, my queen?” He laughed .
Khal Drogo had been her sun-and-stars, but he had been dead so long that Daenerys had almost forgotten how it felt to love and be loved . On the day that he returned from his latest sortie, he tossed the head of a Yunkish lord at her feet and kissed her in the hall for all the world to see, until Barristan Selmy pulled the two of them apart .
Daario took his sword belt off the peg where he had hung it . “You will leave Hizdahr be!” “As my queen commands. Let him hold court.” “Some are his, some are yours. The ones you freed.” “You are. You are chiding me.” “This after that you speak of never comes. You should hold court. My new men do not believe that you are real.” “The Frog?” she said, giggling. “And who is
Daario bowed deeply, grinned, and took his leave, his cloak swirling behind him . It was black and plump, still moist with dew . The fruit had lost its savor now that Daario was gone.
The Yunkai’i were even bringing in wood by sea . They would wait behind their siege lines, flinging stones at Meereen until famine and disease had brought her people to their knees . Sleep came hard, even when Daario came back, so drunk that he could barely stand .
Daario Stormborn, the Unburnt, Queen of Meereen, Princess of the Andals and the Rhoynar and the First Men, Khaleesi of Great Grass Sea, Breaker of Shackles and Mother of Dragons . It had been so long since she last held court that the crush of cases was almost overwhelming . The back of the hall was a solid press of people, and scuffles broke out over precedence .
Dany was six feet tall and earless, with a slit nose, deep scars in both cheeks, and the coldest eyes the queen had ever seen . Daario Naharis appeared with his new Stormcrows, the Westerosi who had come over to him from the Wind-blown .
Hugh Hungerford was slim and saturnine with spiders tattooed across his head and chest and arms . Red-faced Orson Stone claimed to be a knight, as did Lucifer Long . Ginger Jack’s face was hidden behind a bristly orange beard .
Dany glanced at Daario and saw anger flash across his face . "If it please Your Grace, we are all three knights," Dany said . Ser Barristan’s suspicions had awakened .
Daario Naharis stepped in front of him and held out a gloved hand . “If it please Your Grace, may I first present my gift?” Daario snatched the parchment out of the Dornishman’s hands and unrolled it .
"No doubt that was why Prince Doran chose to keep the pact a secret," suggested Daenerys . "My father was content to wait for the day that Prince Viserys found his army." "Prince Doran, I have the honor to be Quentyn Martell," Dany laughed .
Daario Naharis gave a scornful laugh at his words . "You are a pup. The queen needs a man beside her, not a mewling boy," Daario said .
Daario and Ser Barristan followed her up the steps to her apartments . "This changes everything," the old knight said . “Three liars,” Daario said darkly .
"My queen is cruel," her captain said . "I forbid you to make a sortie today," Dany asked him . “I will bring you back the head of Brown Ben Plumm for a wedding gift.” “Once you brought me flowers.” He is not one to stoop and pluck a dandelion, true, but he has servants who will be pleased to do it for him. One day he will go and not return, she thought. Five of them would die,
"Your Grace does not love the noble Hizdahr. This one thinks you would sooner have another for your husband," she said . "A queen loves where she must, not where she will.” Her appetite had left her .
Dany envied the Dothraki maids their loose sandsilk trousers and painted vests . "Help me wind this round myself, please. I cannot manage all these pearls by myself," she knew . She remembered the night of her first wedding when Khal Drogo claimed her maidenhead beneath stranger stars .
The seneschal wore a tokar of maroon samite with golden fringes . It was always dusk inside the base of the Great Pyramid . Walls thirty feet thick muffled the streets and kept the heat outside .
Ser Barristan Selmy fell in beside her on his dapple grey . She found Strong Belwas eating grapes, as a stableboy cinch the girth . The three Dornishmen were with him, talking, but broke off when the queen appeared .
A landed knight is no fit consort for a princess of royal blood . Daario Naharis is only a sellsword, not fit to buckle on the golden spurs . The white knight chose his words with care . A drunken jape, no more, but Tywin Lannister was not a man to forget such words .
Dany wondered where Daario Naharis was, what he was doing . He would gallop up as we reached the temple, to challenge Hizdahr zo Loraq for my hand .
Daenerys Targaryen eased herself onto the chair’s velvet seat . Hizdahr zo Loraq went to his knees, unlaced her sandals, and washed her feet . They followed the Green Grace inside the temple, where the air was thick with incense . Four hours later, they emerged again as man and wife, bound together wrist and ankle with chains of yellow gold .
Queen Selyse's face was pinched and pale. She wore a crown of red gold with points in the shape of flames . Shireen was a homely child, made even uglier by the greyscale that had left her neck stiff and part of her cheek grey and cracked .
Queen Selyse beckoned to another curious member of her entourage . Cotter Pyke had sent a raven ahead to advise them of the banker’s coming . Jon Snow had thought of little since .
The queen’s words were courteous enough, though her tone said, It is no more than your duty . It is our intent to press on to our new seat at the Nightfort as soon as we are rested . "You will be cold and hungry, I am sure. A hot meal awaits you in our common room," said Jon Snow .
The queen put a hand on her daughter’s shoulder . She must be kept from harm, and Eastwatch is where the attack will come . Princess Shireen will one day sit the Iron Throne and rule the Seven Kingdoms . Three of the queen’s knights gasped in harmony .
Patchface shuffled his feet in a grotesque dance step . A giant’s laughter could put to shame a dragon’s roar . Patchface covered his ears, Princess Shireen pressed her face into her mother’s furs . The boldest of the queen’s knights moved forward, steel in hand .
Wun Wun had never tasted wine until he came to Castle Black . He had taken a gigantic liking to it. Too much a liking. Jon had enough to contend with just now without adding a drunken giant to the mix .
The Iron Bank is always prudent in such matters . “Perhaps before you leave we might have a quiet word?” “I am at your service, Lord Commander. And in Braavos we say there is no time like the present.” “As good as any. Shall we repair to my solar, or would you like to see the top of the Wall?” The banker glanced up, to where the ice loomed vast and pale against the sky. “You learn to walk well away from the edge.
“You cannot mean to hold Stannis responsible for his brother’s debts.” “The debts belong to the Iron Throne,” Tycho said . “Help, help, help,” the raven screamed. “There is always a price, is there not?” Jon Snow bowed his head .
Jon Snow signed the parchment the Braavosi drew up, both of them were half-drunk and quite unhappy . The three ships would bring the fleet at Eastwatch up to eleven, including the Ibbenese whaler .
“I fear not, my lord. Westerosi pass through Braavos every day, but most come and go from the Ragman’s Harbor . By now they should be safe in Oldtown.” “Let us hope so. The narrow sea is perilous this time of year, and of late there have been troubling reports of strange ships seen amongst the Step-stones.” “Salladhor Saan?” “The Lysene pirate? Some say he has returned to
Ser Brus and Ser Malegorn gathered with the latest tidings from Eastwatch and beyond the sea . Three of the queen’s ladies sat together, attended by their serving maids and a dozen admiring men of the Night’s Watch . Axell Florent tossed a bone aside, wiped his mouth with the back of his hand, and sauntered over .
Ser Axell shrugged. “Whatever she may be, at Eastwatch men claimed the wench was fair.” “I promise not to count her teeth.” Florent grinned. “Oh, never fear, I’ll treat her with all the courtesy she is due.” He knows I do not have her. A village has no secrets, and no more did Castle Black .
The Iron Bank of Braavos had a fearsome reputation when collecting debts . When princes failed to repay the Iron Bank, new princes sprang up from nowhere and took their thrones .
The Lannisters had good reason for refusing to honor King Robert’s debts . If Stannis was not too stiff-necked to accept their terms, the Braavosi would give him all the gold and silver he required, coin enough to buy a dozen sellsword companies, to bribe a hundred lords, to keep his men paid, fed, clothed, and armed.
Melisandre’s horse was dying under her. All skin and ribs it was, lame and lathered . They cut it loose and took the girl for questioning . The men of Castle Black still called it that, though by now the old maester should be warm and safe in Oldtown .
Maester Aemon's old chambers were so warm that the sudden cloud of steam when Mully pulled the door open was enough to blind the two of them . The girl was curled up near the fire, wrapped in a black woolen cloak three times her size and fast asleep . A tall, skinny, coltish girl, all legs and elbows, her brown hair was bound about with strips of leather .
Jon was staring. Hear me, kinsman. My uncle Cregan is hard upon my trail . "I was not sure you would remember. I was six the last time you saw me." "You came to Winterfell with your father." "I don’t recall what for."
"You’re still a little sullen," the girl said, "but I will forgive you that if you will save me from my uncle" "My brother Harry is the rightful lord, and by law I am his heir," Alys said scornfully . "Before the war I was betrothed to Daryn Hornwood," she said .
The Night’s Watch has no quarrel with Karhold, nor with you.” “Good. I was afraid ... I begged my father to leave one of my brothers as castellan, but none of them wished to miss the glory and ransoms to be won in the south.” “Why not the king? Karhold declared for Stannis, in hopes it might provoke the Lannisters to take poor Harry’s head. Once Cregan gets a child by me they won’t need me anymore
She opened her eyes and stared up blind at the black that shrouded her . The bleating of the sheep, the terror in the shepherd’s eyes, the sound the dogs had made as she killed them one by one, the snarling of her pack . Game had become scarcer since the snows began to fall, but last night they had feasted . Some of her little grey cousins were afraid of men, even dead men, but not her. Meat was meat, and men were
Blind Beth was no water dancer, but she would not be Beth forever . She knew the way to the kitchens, but her nose would have led her there even if she hadn’t . The night wolf had feasted, but that would not fill her belly .
The Sealord was sick yesterday, and he will still be sick upon the morrow . When he is dead, there will be a choosing, and the knives will come out . In Westeros, a dead king was followed by his eldest son .
"I know that some men are saying that Tormo Fregar will surely be the new sealord," she answered . She chewed her lip, thinking back to last night . "The whore S’vrone is with child. She is not certain of the father, but thinks it might have been that Tyroshi sellsword that she killed."
A blind girl woken blind, the waif took her by the hand and led her through the vaults and tunnels of the rock on which the House of Black and White was built . It was five feet long, slender and supple, thick as her thumb, with leather wrapped around the shaft a foot from the top . No stick was better than a pair of eyes, but it was good to have, so she always kept it close .
Supper was for language lessons . The blind girl understood Braavosi and could speak it passably . She had even lost most of her barbaric accent . In the evening she played the lying game with the waif .
She burned herself a dozen times as she worked with Umma in the kitchens . Once, chopping onions, she cut her finger down to the bone . Twice she could not even find her own room in the cellar .
a man had died at the feet of the Stranger, a candle flickering above him . She felt his face, tracing the line of his jaw, brushing her fingers across his cheeks and nose, touching his hair . Dying bravos oft found their way to the House of Black and White, to haveten their ends, but this man had no wounds that she could find .
The blind girl went to work in the dark, stripping the dead of boots and clothes and other possessions . Telling one coin from another by touch alone was one of the first things the waif had taught her . The Braavosi coins were old friends; she need only brush her fingertips across their faces to recognize them .
Her stick smacked off his own. The impact sent a jolt up her arm. “Good,” the voice said. The blind girl did not know whom the voice belonged to . The House of Black and White was home to two serving men, three acolytes, Umma the cook, and the two priests that she called the waif and the kindly man .
Blind acolytes were common in the House of Black and White, but few as young as she . Dareon had been a deserter from the Night’s Watch; he had deserved to die .
The first of us answered the prayers of slaves who wished for death . The gift was given only to those who yearned for it, in the beginning . So fervently did he desire this that he offered all he had, that his prayer might be answered .
Blind Beth had shaved her head for her when they took her eyes; a mummer’s cut, she called it . But it worked for beggars too and helped to keep their heads free from fleas and lice . She had never cared if she was pretty, even when she was stupid Arya Stark .
A cracked wooden begging bowl and belt of hempen rope completed her garb . She set out as the Titan roared the sunset, tapping to the bridge . Half the city will be half-blind tonight .
Cat knew each inn and tavern by its scent . The Black Bargeman had a briny smell . Pynto’s stank of sour wine, stinky cheese, and Pyngto himself . Each place had its own sounds too .
Beth had spent outside the Inn of the Green Eel, so tonight she turned right instead of left after the Bloody Bridge and made her way to Pynto’s at the other end of Ragman’s Harbor . Oft as not, he would let her come inside where it was warm if the place was not too crowded, and now and again he might even let her have a mug of ale and a crust of food while regaling her with his stories .
Pynto was in a jolly mood and gave her a cup of watered wine, chunk of stinky cheese, and half of an eel pie . The Sealord seized the Goodheart, a storm-wracked galley that had limped into Braavos last night . Three Lyseni were seized by the sealord’s guards this morning .
The Lyseni at Pynto’s think that she’ll return with more ships . The price of slaves is rising, they said, and there are thousands more women and children at Hardhome .
Umma served salt-crusted crabs for supper . When her cup was presented to her, the blind girl wrinkled her nose and drank it down in three long gulps . The girl stuffed it in her mouth, chewed, swallowed. It helped .
Grey Jeyne had eaten so much of the dead man’s face that half the day was gone before they knew for certain who he’d been . Theon Greyjoy found himself wondering why any man would climb the steps to the battlements in the black of night just to take a piss .
Drifts climbed the walls and filled the crenels along the battlements . Ropes were strung from hall to hall to help keep from getting lost as they crossed the yards . No less a man than Hosteen Frey, who had been heard growling that he did not fear a little snow, lost an ear to frostbite .
Theon had the man dragged up to the Battlements Gate . Skinner and Sour Alyn seized his arms and legs and tossed him from the wall to the ground eighty feet below . The drifts had climbed so high they swallowed the man bodily ... but bowmen claimed they glimpsed him later, dragging a broken leg through the snow .
Lady Dustin was of the north and should have known better . Theon was bent over a wooden bowl finishing the last of his own portion of pease porridge . She sat down next to him, too close, another of Ramsay’s washerwomen . “Some girls like to touch,” she said, with a little half-smile .
Theon was just a singer, a pander with a lute and a false smile . He wants to know how I took the castle, but not to make a song of it . Theon could not blame him, but even so so he said, “I want no part of Abel, or you, or any of your sisters. Just leave me be.” Outside the snow was swirling, dancing .
Ser Aenys Frey’s grizzled squire was found naked and dead of exposure in the old castle lichyard . Theon thought the man had drunk too much and gotten lost in the storm . A crossbowman sworn to the Flints turned up in the stables with a broken skull . It all seemed so familiar, like a mummer show he had seen before .
Lord Wyman Manderly slapped his massive belly . "White Harbor does not fear to ride with you, Ser Hosteen," Ser Hosten said . “Many and more?” mocked Aenys Frey .
Twenty-six horses and two grooms died, crushed beneath the roof or smothered under the snows . Lord Bolton appeared briefly in the outer ward to inspect the scene . It took the best part of the morning to dig out the bodies . The dead man was one of Ramsay’s favorites .
horses, dogs, and men squeezed under one roof, floors slimy with mud and melting snow, horseshit, dog turds, and even human feces . The cooks served up great slabs of fresh horsemeat, charred outside and bloody red within, with roast onions and neeps ... and for once, the common soldiers ate as well as the lords and knights .
Damon Dance-for-Me sat greasing up his whip against his calf as a man might do to summon his dog . Theon had no reply for that beyond a soft “Yes” . “Go away, Reek,” Skinner said. “The smell of you turns my stomach.” The others laughed .
Theon trudged through the storm until his arms and legs were caked with snow and his hands and feet had gone numb from cold . Theon had to punch through a wall of snow to make a hole ... only to find that he could not see beyond the moat . King’s Landing, Riverrun, Pyke, and the Iron Islands, all the Seven Kingdoms .
Lady Dustin sat with him, pale-faced and severe; an iron horsehead brooch clasped Roger Ryswell’s cloak; Aenys Frey stood near the fire, pinched cheeks flushed with cold . Lord Bolton kept his head down, fixed upon the old stale rushes scattered on the floor . It was not wise to look his lordship in the face .
Ser Aenys Frey fingered the wispy brown beard that sprouted from his weak chin like a rat’s tail . He could still hold a sword. A dagger.” Lady Dustin laughed .
Lord Wyman brought three hundred men with him. A hundred knights. Any of them might have—” Lady Dustin said . Theon drew his gloves on over his maimed hands and took his leave .
Theon shivered. Baratheon or Bolton, it made no matter to him . Theon made his way along the wallwalk, one more man amongst a score doing the same . "Is Stannis fool enough to storm the castle?" a sentry asked .
Fat Wyman Manderly, Whoresbane Umber, the men of House Hornwood and House Tallhart, the Lockes and Flints and Ryswells, all of them were northmen sworn to House Stark for generations beyond count . It was the girl who held them here, Lord Eddard’s blood, but the girl was just a mummer’s ploy, a lamb in a direwolf’s skin . And every man who falls is one less foe
Theon stopped by the edge of the pool and bowed his head before its carved red face . It was not Bran we killed, it was not Rickon we killed . He had been fond of the boy, had never done him any harm .
Theon turnedcloak. He had to have two heads, did you? “Elsewise men would have laughed at him,” said Holly . There was more despair than defiance in his voice . “Go on. Do me, the way you did the others. Yellow Dick and the rest. It was you.” Rowan asked .
Tyrion Lannister spied longswords, dirks and daggers beneath their cloaks . The auction block had been thrown up where the broad brown Skahazadhan flowed into Slaver’s Bay . He did not mind the heat so much as he did the damp . "Dog and pig included in lot," the auctioneer announced .
“Three hundred,” called a monstrously fat Yunkishman from the litter where he sprawled like a leviathan, looked as large as four Illyrios . Tyrion pitied the slaves who had to carry him. At least we will be spared that duty. “And one,” said a crone in a violet tokar .
A well-trained pig is hard to find. They certainly were not bidding by the pound . The auctioneer had the scent, though, and nothing would do but that the dwarfs give the crowd a taste of their show .
"The female’s young," he promised . "You could breed the two of them, get good coin for the whelps." "His eyes don’t match neither. An ill-favored thing," Tyrion grabbed his crotch .
Tyrion knew how to deal with sellswords. He knows me. He means to take me back to Westeros and sell me to my sister . The crone and the girl on the shield gave up the chase at three thousand, but not the fat man in yellow .
“Five thousand is an insult!” Tyrion called out . “I’m murder with a cross-bow, and men three times my size quail and tremble when we meet across a cyvasse table.” The sellsword in the purple cloak turned back . The dwarf cocked his head, and heard the whip before he felt it .
Tyrion looked across the Yunkish camp to the walls of Meereen . The slaver soon had her naked. At least we were spared that humiliation . Tyrion had to reach those gates and pass beyond, and he would be a free man again . When our show grows stale, however ... and it does, it does .
Yezzan zo Qaggaz is a scholar and warrior, revered amongst the Wise Masters of Yunkai . Tyrion thought, but this time he held his tongue . They would have to perform for their new master soon enough, he did not doubt .
Ser Jorah had met the slavers with longsword in hand, slaying three before they overwhelmed him . He had been chained to an oar, beaten within an inch of his life, starved, and branded . "Big and strong, this one," the auctioneer declared .
Nurse was lecturing his master’s new prizes . He reached down and pinched Penny on her cheek . “A big brute like this, he’s worth three times as much!” cried the auctioneer .
Nurse went scuttling off through the crowd, bent over the yellow Yunkishman in his litter . His master nodded, chins wobbling, then raised his fan . “Your show was growing dull. Every mummer needs a dancing bear.” She gave him a reproachful look .
a hundred camps raised up cheek by jowl in a crescent around the walls of Meereen, a city of silk and canvas with its own avenues and alleys, taverns and trollops . Some were small and mean, no more than a flap of old stained canvas to keep off the rain and sun, but beside them stood barracks tents large enough to sleep . Elsewhere, pure chaos seemed to reign .
Tyrion saw a slave being whipped, blow after blow, until his back was nothing but blood and raw meat . A file of men marched past in irons, clanking with every step; they carried spears and wore short swords . The air smelled of roasting meat, and he saw the dead as well, and heard the dying .
Tyrion had never seen the point of slings before . Their lead balls did vastly more damage than the smooth stones other slingers used . They burst apart in a gout of blood and bone that left the man’s lower leg dangling by a rope of dark red tendon .
The humble tent of Yezzan zo Qaggaz proved to be a palace of lemon-colored silk . Gilded harpies stood atop the center poles of each of its nine peaked roofs shining in the sun . The knight frowned at Mormont. “Not you, bear. You are big and ugly, you will be chained outside.” The knight did not respond .
Nurse escorted the dwarfs inside the master’s pavilion and showed them where they would sleep . They would share this space with Yezzan’s other treasures: a boy with twisted, hairy “goat legs,” a two-headed girl out of Mantarys, a bearded woman, and a willowy creature called Sweets who dressed in moonstones and Myrish lace . Sweets sniggered, but Nurse was not amused .
Yezzan’s body slaves filled a tub with hot water, and the dwarfs were allowed to bathe— Penny first, then Tyrion . Tyrion’s beard got a trim, and Penny’s hair was cut . Nurse returned to tell them that it was time to don their mummer’s plate .
Tyrion had not mastered half of Groat’s old tricks, but he could ride the sow, fall off when he was meant to, roll, and pop back onto his feet . The sight of little people running about drunk-enly and whacking at one another with wooden weapons appeared to be just as hilarious in a siege camp by Slaver’s Bay as Joffrey’s wedding feast in King’s Landing .
Penny’s helm was struck off and flew into the lap of a sour-faced Yunkishman . When said lord reached inside the helm and drew out a large purple melon dribbling pulp . Tyrion turned to his host and whispered something that made their master chortle and lick his lips .
Tyrion had boasted of his skill at cyvasse on the auction block . A table and set of pieces was duly produced . Tyrion turned to Yezzan. “My noble master decides when and who I play.” Plumm took the second, for double the stakes .
The sellsword was nearly as bad a player as the Yunkish lord had been, but his play was stolid and tenacious rather than bold . It worked in their second game, when the little man overreached himself with an unsound assault . Near the end of that final contest, his dragon dead, elephants before him and heavy horse circling round his rear, Plumm looked up smiling .
Tyrion rose unsteadily, one leg trembling beneath him . Yurkhaz zo Yunzak persuaded him that it would be selfish to keep such droll antics to himself .
Blackwood Vale dominated the broad fertile valley . It was, beyond a doubt, but no wood had grown here for several thousand years . Some of the trees in their godswood were said to be as old as Raventree’s square towers . A bit of the forest still remained .
Jonos Bracken had five hundred men about Raventree . Jaime saw no siege towers, no battering rams and no catapults . With no prospect of relief in sight, he was content to starve him out .
Lord Bracken’s pavilion was the largest in the camp, and the best sited . The tent was brown, like the standard flapping from its center pole . Jaime gave the order to dismount and told his men they might mingle if they liked .
Lord Jonos sheathed his sword. He was not quite so tall as Jaime, but he was heavier . His eyes were brown as well, the anger in them poorly hidden . Jaime smiled at the woman in the bed .
Jonos slipped off the bed to snatch up her scattered clothing, her fingers fluttering nervously between her breasts and cleft as she bent and reached . She pulled a soiled shift down over her head and shook her hair out . “Does that mean m’lord won’t be taking me home with him,” she said .
Doran Martell had betrothed her to his son in the belief that she was Robert’s blood . “No turnips for you, then,” the girl said saucily. “Get out,” Lord Jonos roared at her. “How would I know? Ask her septon. When your father burned our castle, she decided the gods were punishing us. Now all she does is pray.” “What brings you here, my lord? The Blackfish?” Jaime asked .
Lord Jonos shrugged into a brown woolen tunic with the red stallion of Bracken embroidered on the front . Lord Blackwood shall be required to confess his treason and abjure his allegiance to the Starks and Tullys . He will swear solemnly before gods and men to remain a leal vassal of Harrenhal and the Iron Throne .
Grindcorn Mill and Lord’s Mill, the ruins of Muddy Hall, the Ravishment, Battle Valley, Oldforge, Buckle, Blackbuckle, Cairns, and Claypool, and the market town at Mudgrave . Jaime rooted about on a table and produced a parchment map .
"The map is yours. The lands are ours. It’s said that a Lannister always pays his debts. We fought for you." "The king has pardoned us for that. I lost my nephew to your swords, and my natural son." "Your Mountain stole my harvest and burned everything he could not carry off," Jaime told him .
Jaime was about to command Ser Kennos to sound the Horn of Herrock . Lord Tytos Blackwood met him in the outer ward, mounted on a destrier as gaunt as himself . He had a hook nose, long hair, and a ragged salt-and-pepper beard that showed more salt than pepper .
Blackwood’s solar was on the second floor of a cavernous timber keep . The room was large and airy, with great beams of dark oak supporting the high ceiling . Through their thick, diamond-shaped panes of yellow glass Jaime glimpsed the gnarled limbs of the godswood .
“I offered to let him take the black. Instead he fled.” Jaime smiled . “Is this where I get down on my knees?” “If it please you. Or we can say you did.” Lord Tytos Blackwood remained seated. They soon reached agreement on the major points .
Lord Tytos looked stricken. “Bethany is only eight. A gentle girl, full of laughter. She has never been more than a day’s ride from my hall.” “Why not let her see King’s Landing? His Grace is almost of an age with her. He would be pleased to have another friend.” “One he can hang if the friend’s father should displease him?” he asked .
Lord Tytos did not attempt to dissuade him . The boy met Jaime by the stables, with a bedroll slung over one shoulder and a bundle of scrolls beneath his arm . He could not have been any older than sixteen, yet he was even taller than his father .
Lord Jonos Bracken was waiting for him outside Raventree, just beyond the range of a good crossbow . He was mounted on an armored destrier and had donned his plate and mail, and a grey steel greathelm with a horsehair crest . “I trust I have more fields to plant than when you went into that castle,” said Bracken .
Lord Jonos snorted at Hoster Blackwood, riding back with Peck . “Is this what he gave you for a hostage? You were cozened, ser. A weakling, this one. Water for blood. Never mind how tall he is, any one of my girls could snap him like a rotten twig.” Too late, he seemed to realize that he might have said too much .
Aegon the Fourth had died long before Jaime had been born, but he recalled enough of the history of his reign to guess what must have happened next . The Brackens call them by one name and the Blackwoods by another . “I can see what they resemble,” the bookish boy replied .
“It is, my lord,” Tyrion said, “but some of the histories were penned by their maesters and some by ours, centuries after the events that they purport to chronicle . It goes back to the Age of Heroes . The Blackwoods were kings in those days, renowned for breeding horses. They used the gold their horses brought them to hire swords and cast him down.” “When did all this happen?” Tyrion would like this one.
The Old King’s Peace lasted half a century . But then some fresh quarrel broke out, and the old wounds opened and began to bleed again . “How, my lord? You can never wound a foe when you can kill him.” “Their sons do,” said Hoster .
Pennytree proved to be a much larger village than he had anticipated . The war had been here too; blackened orchards and the scorched shells of broken houses testified to that . But for every home in ruins three more had been rebuilt .
Jaime ate sparingly and shared a skin of wine with Peck and Hos the hostage . He tried to count the pennies nailed to the old oak, but there were too many of them and he kept losing count . The Blackwood boy would tell him if he asked, but that would spoil the mystery .
The snowfall was light today, a thin scattering of flakes dancing in the air, but the wind was blowing from the east along the Wall . Even Melisandre’s fire was shivering; the flames huddled down in the ditch, crackling softly as the red priestess sang . The southron queen seemed a frail, pale, shrunken thing, but her eyes brimmed with reverence .
Melisandre's back was to the Wall, on one side of the deep ditch where her fire burned . Behind them stood the queen, with her daughter and her tattooed fool . Othell Yarwyck and Bowen Marsh were among the missing .
A swirl of sparks rose to meet the snowflakes coming down . “We thank you for brave Stannis, by your grace our king. Guide him and defend him, R’hllor. Protect him from the treacheries of evil men and grant him strength to smite the servants of the dark.” Alys Karstark slipped her arm through Jon’s .
The Magnar of Thenn stood waiting by the fire, clad as if for battle . His receding hair made him look older than his years, but as he turned to watch his bride approach, Jon could see the boy in him . “Who brings this woman to be wed?” asked Melisandre. “Me.” He gave her hand one last squeeze and stepped back to join the others.
Cregan Karstark had turned up a day behind his niece . With him came four mounted men-at-arms, a huntsman, and a pack of dogs . They could turn up at Castle Black, claim guest right, or call for parley .
The queen’s men began to sing a song of praise. “Is it done?” Jon heard Satin whisper . “Done and done,” muttered Mully, “and a good thing. They’re wed and I’m half-froze.” He was muffled up in his best blacks, woolens so new that they had hardly had a chance to fade yet, but the wind had turned his cheeks as red as his hair. “What’s cloves?” asked Owen
Jon bowed. “If it please Your Grace, the feast awaits.” The queen glanced suspiciously, then raised her head to Jon. “To be sure. Lady Melisandre knows the way.” The red priestess spoke up . “Satin, show Her Grace to her place,” said Jon .
Clydas had dispatched a raven to Deepwood Motte to warn the king of Arnolf Karstark’s treachery . The Braavosi banker was off in search of Stannis as well, but between the war and weather, it would be a wonder if he found him . Azor Ahai shall be born again amidst smoke and salt to wake dragons out of stone .
Jon Snow had given his chief captive the largest cell, a pail to shit in, enough furs to keep him from freezing, and a skin of wine . It took the guards some time to open his cell, as ice had formed inside the lock . A faint fecal odor greeted him, though less overpowering than he had expected .
Ice caked the prisoner’s mustache, clumps of frozen snot . "You are no guest of mine. You came to the Wall without my leave, armed, to carry off your niece against her will." Cregan Karstark’s lips skinned back from his teeth .
“I see what you are, Snow.” Cregan’s hands closed into fists . His black wool surcoat was emblazoned with the white sunburst of his house . “My name is Snow.” “Bastard.” “Guilty. Of that, at least.” “Let this Magnar come to Karhold. We’ll hack off his head and stuff it in a privy” .
The Night’s Watch took no part in the quarrels of the realm . Some would say he had already given Stannis too much help . He will do his best to rip apart all I’ve done with Lady Alys and Magnar .
Old Flint and The Norrey had been given places of high honor just below the dais . Both men had been too old to march with Stannis; they had sent their sons and grandsons in their stead . They had been quick enough to descend on Castle Black for the wedding .
Ser Axell Florent led Queen Selyse out onto the floor to dance . The queen’s knights first, partnered with her ladies . Ser Narbert gave Princess Shireen her first dance, then took a turn with her mother . Satin was all grace, dancing with three serving girls in turn .
“My Magnar is not one for dancing, I fear. If you will not dance with me, at least pour me some of the mulled wine.” “As you command.” He signaled for a flagon. “I am now a woman wed. A wildling husband with his own little wildling army.” “Thenns are a people apart, though. Very old.” Ygritte had told him that. “They come from a hidden vale at the north end of the Frost
The first Flints, they call themselves. They say the other Flints are the blood of younger sons, who had to leave the mountains to find food and land and wives . When the snows fall and food grows scarce, their young must travel to the winter town or take service at one castle or the other . Send your old men to the Wall, let them say our words .
The elk smelled better than Jon had any reason to expect . Three-Finger Hobb’s acquitted himself well . He had come to him complaining that he’d joined Night’s Watch to kill wildlings .
Glendon Hewett was a seasoned man and a strong one, a sensible choice to command in Cotter Pyke’s absence . But he was also as much a friend as Alliser Thorne could boast . Jon could still recall how Hewett had dragged him from his bed, and the feel of his boot slamming into his ribs .
Axell Florent, if you are truly the Queen’s Hand, I pity Her Grace . "This marriage is a good first step, but I know that it would please the queen to see the wildling princess wed as well," Jon sighed. He was weary of explaining that Val was no true princess.
Val. Tormund Giantsbane had come at King Hizdahr’s invitation . The Yunkai’i had come to sign the peace and witness the rebirth of Meereen’s far-famed fighting pits .
A dozen different kinds of meat and fish were served: camel, crocodile, singing squid, lacquered ducks and spiny grubs . No Ghiscari feast was complete without a course of dog . Meat alone does not make a meal, so there were fruits and grains and vegetables as well .
The Wise Masters had established their slave pens and auction block just south of the Skahazadhan . "They are mocking me to my face, making a show of how powerless I am to stop them," said Dany . “When they are gone, we will make a fruit market of what they leave behind,” Rakharo says .
In the day’s final pairing, Goghor the Giant would go against Belaquo Bonebreaker . She thought of Doreah, of Quaro, of Eroeh ... of a little girl she had never met . The Yunkish Supreme Commander, Yurkhaz zo Yunzak, might have been alive during Aegon’s Conquest, to judge by his appearance .
Dany had sworn no harm would come to the seven envoys and commanders . Meereen sent seven of its own out to the siege camp: Hizdahr’s sister, two of his cousins, her admiral Groleo, the Unsullied captain Hero, and Daario Naharis. It is for the best.
A troupe of Yunkish castrati owned by Yurkhaz zo Yunzak sang them songs in the ancient tongue of the Old Empire, their voices high and sweet and impossibly pure . All of the entertainers were slaves, that had been part of the peace, that slaveowners be allowed the right to bring their chattels into Meereen without fear of having them freed .
The tumblers who came next failed to move her either . Is the girl on top meant to represent my pyramid? Dany found herself face-to-face with Brown Ben Plumm .
Gold, Your Worship, sweet yellow gold. Enough for any man to live like a lord for the rest o’ his days. But what good did it do him? Silver’s sweet and gold’s our mother, but once you’re dead they’re worth less than that last shit you take as you lie dying .
Dany turned to gaze out over her city . Two more Ghiscari legions had made camp to the east, choking off the road to the Khyzai Pass . The horse lines and cookfires of the free companies lay to the south .
"I am only a young girl and know little of such things, but it seems to me that we want them to be treacherous." "This is not the time. Too many eyes, too many ears. Their absence would be noted even if you could separate them discreetly from the Yunkai'i." "We old knights are simple men, only good for fighting," said Dany .
"If it please Your Grace, we want no part of him," says Dany . "You know more of such men than me, ser." "Do as you think best. But do it soon." "The Yunkai’i grow weaker as well. The bloody flux has taken hold amongst the Tolosi," it is said .
The three Dornishmen had been at the feast as befit Prince Quentyn’s rank, though Reznak had taken care to seat them as far as possible from her husband . "The boy seems pleasant and well spoken, but ... The boy is ancient and noble, and has been a leal friend to House Targaryen for more than a century, Your Grace." "It would please me if he had turned up with these fifty thousand swords he speaks of. Instead he brings
Ser Barristan was waiting by the steps with the Dornish prince . Martell’s square face was flushed and ruddy . Too much wine, the queen concluded, though he was doing his best to conceal that .
Dany drew the Dornish prince inside with her, to stand above the pit . The dragons craned their necks around, gazing at them with burning eyes . Viserion had shattered one chain and melted the others .
Dany stood on her toes and kissed him lightly, once on each cheek . "I ... I have the blood of the dragon in me as well, Your Grace," she said . She knew little and less of Dorne or its history .
Daario has five hundred Stormcrows. And you would do well to beware of my lord husband too . He commands the allegiance of some of the most fearsome fighters in the world . Then you truly are a fool, Prince Frog.
Khal Drogo was as like to return from the dead as she was to bear a living child . But there are some secrets she could not bring herself to share, even with a husband . She wanted to shake him, wake him, make him hold her, kiss her, fuck her again, but even if he did, he would fall back to sleep again afterward, leaving her alone in the darkness .
“His Grace is dreaming, but I cannot sleep. On the morrow I must bathe in blood. The price of peace.” She smiled wanly and patted the bed . “Come. Sit. Talk with me.” “If it please you.” Missandei did her best. The morning came too soon .
Theon broke his own fast with a tankard of dark ale, cloudy with yeast and thick enough to chew on . Roose Bolton entered, pale-eyed and yawning, accompanied by his plump and pregnant wife, Fat Walda . Lord Ramsay soon appeared as well, buckling on his sword belt as he made his way to the front of the hall .
Abel’s fingers danced across the strings of his lute . He’s brown, though his long hair had gone to grey . “If the Bastard does come after us, he might live long enough to rue it.” Think that . Tell yourself it’s true.
Theon wondered if he would ever see the Drowned God’s watery halls . If Abel’s scheme went awry, Ramsay would make their dying long and hard . No pain Theon had ever known came close to the agony that Skinner could evoke with a little flensing blade . Abel, her name is Jeyne, and her eyes are the wrong color .
Ser Hosteen Frey lowered the body to the floor before the dais . "Butchered like a hog and shoved beneath a snowbank. A boy.” Little Walder, thought Theon. “Be quiet,” Abel warned her . “Under that ruined keep, my lord,” replied Big Walder .
Ser Hosteen Frey ripped his longsword from its scabbard and leapt toward Wyman Manderly . The Lord of White Harbor tried to jerk away, but the tabletop pinned him to his chair . Lady Walda gave a shriek and clutched at her lord husband’s arm .
Lord Ramsay silenced him, yanking a spear from one of Steelshanks’s men and driving it down through a gaping belly wound . By that time six White Harbor men and two Freys lay dead upon the floor . A dozen more were wounded and one of the Bastard’s Boys was dying noisily .
“First you must needs come through us, ser,” said the eldest of them . “Enough,” roared Lord Ramsay, brandishing his bloody spear . He turned his head, his pale cold eyes searching the hall until they found the bard Abel beside Theon .
Theon Greyjoy walked Theon from the hall, to a secluded spot back by the barracks wall, beside a pool of warm mud that stank of rotten eggs . Theon drained the last dregs of his ale and rose reluctantly to his feet, soft-footed as she always was . Rowan pulled Theon away from the north-men praying before the tree .
Little Walder was a piglet. Killing him brought the Freys and Manderlys to dagger points, that was cunning, you—” “Not us.” Rowan grabbed him by the throat and shoved him back against the barracks wall, her face an inch from his . “You won’t. You need my tongue to get you past the guards. You NEED my lies,” Rowan spat in his face . In her own way, this one was as dangerous as Skinner
Ironborn, I was ironborn, Balon Greyjoy’s son and rightful heir to Pyke . When Squirrel returned, the other four were with her . Clad as serving girls in layers of drab grey roughspun, they wore brown woolen cloaks lined with white rabbit fur . Willow Witch-Eye with her long black braid, Frenya of the thick waist and enormous breasts .
Winterfell's cavernous kitchen occupied a building all its own . With so many mouths to feed, every scrap of food was precious . They liked to taunt him when he came to fetch hot water for Lady Arya’s bath .
Theon had to scrub one out before filling it with water . Then it seemed to take forever to come to a boil and twice to fill six wooden pails . All while Abel’s women waited, their faces shadowed by their cowls .
Ser Rodrik, Lord Eddard, Harwin and Hullen had fought many a heroic battle on these steps, slashing at one another with wooden swords . Old Nan was the worst thrashing he ever had at Winterfell .
Sour Alyn and Grunt had spent most of their lives in service at the Dreadfort . They did as they were told. "I have hot water for the Lady Arya," Theon said . "Where is she?" Holly asked .
Jeyne had pulled the furs up over herself to hide . The thought that Ramsay might be coming made him want to scream. “My lady.” Theon could not bring himself to call her Arya . “No need to hide. These are friends.” The furs stirred. An eye peered out, shining with tears. “Brother?” The girl’s face emerged from underneath the wolfskins. “I ... I have no brothers.” She has forgotten her name .
Jeyne pulled her wolfskins up to her chin, touched her cheek . “I do, I do, he love him more than anything.” A tear ran down her cheek. “Tell him, you tell him. I’ll do what he wants ... with him or with the dog or ... please ... ... I’m a good girl,” Willow whistled softly. “Gods curse the man.” “I’m my good girl.” Willow scowled .
Theon slipped his hand through hers. The stumps of his lost fingers tingled as he drew the girl to her feet. The wolfskins fell away from her. Underneath them she was naked, her pale breasts covered with teeth marks . With Rowan’s help, Theon got Jeyne Poole into Squirrel’s clothes . If the gods are good and the guards are blind, she may pass .
Theon felt almost giddy. They never looked. We walked the girl right by them! What if they met Skinner or Damon Dance-for-Me or Steelshanks Walton? What use was it to smuggle the girl out of her bedchamber?
The Great Keep was already lost to sight behind them . They were in the heart of Winterfell with the castle all around them, but no sign of it could be seen . Beyond the castle walls, winter was waiting with its icy teeth .
Theon Greyjoy slipped past the guard’s spearpoint and reached up to his face, pulling loose the scarf to plant a kiss upon his mouth . There was blood on Holly’s lips as she stepped back, and blood dribbling from his mouth as he fell . She spun the spear around and drove its point through his belly with a grunt .
Theon clapped one hand around Jeyne’s mouth, grabbed her about the waist with the other, and pulled her past the dead and dying guards . From behind them came alarums and the sounds of running feet, then the blast of a trumpet from the ramparts of the inner wall . Theon was staggering by the time he reached the foot of the stair . He slung the girl over his shoulder and began to climb .
A quarrel had sprouted from her gut . When she wrapped a hand around it, blood leaked through her fingers . Jeyne Poole was staring down at Holly as the snowy blanket over her turned from white to red .
Jhiqui slipped Dany’s silk robe from her shoulders and Irri helped her into her bathing pool . The light of the rising sun shimmered on the water, broken by the shadow of the persimmon tree . “Your Grace,” said Missandei, “this one begs leave to say that half of Meereen will be there to watch men bleed and die.” She is not wrong, the queen knew .
Ser Barristan awaited them beside an ornate open palanquin, surrounded by Brazen Beasts . He looked tall and handsome in the armor that she’d given him . “I would be happier if you had Unsullied guards about you today, Your Grace,” Hizdahr said .
"The Tattered Prince will want more than coin, Your Grace." "He would be willing to wait, the woman Meris suggested." "I will not repay that debt by giving his city to some sellsword. No." Hizdahr zo Loraq commented when she rejoined him .
Nine of every ten were moving westward, down the broad brick thoroughfare to Daznak’s Pit . When they caught sight of the palanquin emerging from the pyramid, a cheer went up from those nearest and spread across the plaza . A great drum led the procession to clear their way through the streets .
Irri and Jhiqui rode at Dany’s side, his armor flashing in the sun . A long cloak flowed from his shoulders, bleached as white as bone . On his left arm was a large white shield .
The Sons of the Harpy—”” “—have been tamed,” said Hizdahr zo Loraq . The Brazen Beasts did as they were bid. Dany watched them at their work .
Daznak’s Pit two towering bronze warriors stood locked in mortal combat . One wielded a sword, the other an axe; the sculptor depicted them in the act of killing one another . Strong Belwas and Ser Barristan fell in to either side as she and her lord husband passed beneath the bronzes .
Meereenese of lesser birth crowded upper tiers, more distant from carnage . Black and purple benches, highest and most distant from the sand, were crowded with freedmen and other common folk . She spied Brown Ben’s weathered face and Bloodbeard’s fiery red whiskers .
Reznak leaned in to whisper in her ear, “Magnificence, hear how they love you!” No, she knew, they love their mortal art . “Strong Belwas was better,” insisted Strong Belwas . Khrazz was Meereenese, a tall man with a brush of stiff red-black hair running down the center of his head .
“Khrazz believes the hearts of brave men make him stronger,” said Hizdahr . Dany had once eaten a stallion’s heart to give strength to her unborn son ... but that had not saved Rhaego when the maegi murdered him .
Dany Hizdahr said his people would love her more if she laughed with them . It had been the custom to sentence criminals to the pits . The queen had also wished to forbid the follies .
Dany watched an elephant make short work of a pack of six red wolves . Next a bull was set against a bear in a bloody battle that left both animals torn and dying . “The flesh is not wasted,” said Hizdahr .
The dwarfs have wooden swords. Wooden armor. How do you expect them to fight lions? “Badly,” said Hizdahr. “You do not want to disappoint your people.” “You swore to me that the fighters would be grown men who had freely consented to risk their lives for gold and honor.
The pitmaster snapped his whip and shouted out commands . The dwarfs were herded off, pig and dog and all, as the spectators hissed their disapproval . A roar went up as Barsena Blackhair strode onto the sands, naked save for breechclout and sandals .
The boar charged, Barsena spun aside, her blade flashed silver in the sun . He sounded like someone’s fussy old grandsire, just as Daario was always saying. He is smarter than a bull, Dany realized. He will not charge again.
The boar buried his snout in Barsena’s belly and began rooting out her entrails . The heat, the flies, the shouts from the crowd ... I cannot breathe. She lifted her veil and let it flutter away . “Ser Barristan, will you see me safely back to my garden?” Hizdahr looked confused .
Strong Belwas gave a moan, stumbled from his seat, and fell to his knees . His scales were black, his eyes and horns and spinal plates blood red . He flapped them once as he swept back above the sands, and the sound was like a clap of thunder .
He darted forward, his boar spear in his hands . Red sand kicked up beneath his heels, and shouts rang out from the seats . The hero leapt onto his back and drove the iron spearpoint down at the base of the dragon’s long scaled neck .
The Meereenese were screaming, cursing, howling . Dany could hear someone pounding after her. “Drogon.” His head turned. Smoke rose between his teeth. His blood was smoking too, where it dripped upon the ground. He beat his wings again .
Drogon roared full in her face, his breath hot enough to blister skin . She scrabbled in the sand, pushing against the pitmaster’s corpse . Touching it made her feel braver. The leather was warm, alive .
Dany swung the lash at his scaled belly, back and forth until her arm began to ache . His long serpentine neck bent like an archer’s bow . The dragon gave one last hiss and stretched out flat upon his belly . Black blood was flowing from the wound where spear had pierced him .
JON He was not a tall man, Tormund Giantsbane, but the gods had given him a broad chest and massive belly . In his wroth, his bellows reminded Jon of a mammoth trumpeting . He called Jon Snow a craven, a liar, and a turncloak, cursed him for a black-hearted buggering kneeler . Twice he flung his drinking horn at Jon’s
Tormund Giantsbane: "Done then, and may the gods forgive me. There’s a hundred mothers never will, I know." Jon clasped the offered hand . The words of his oath rang through his head. I am the watcher on the walls . He would have given much and more to know that he was doing the right thing .
Tormund Giantsbane had worn them as long as Jon had known him . They had seemed as much a part of him as his beard . The Braavosi will melt down for the gold .
“I am not the man I was at Ruddy Hall. Seen too much death, and worse things too. My sons ...” Grief twisted Tormund’s face . “He wasn’t much of a man, truth be told, but he’d been me little boy once, and I loved him.” Jon put a hand on his shoulder .
Jon had heard from the older men at Castle Black: the Wall has more moods than Mad King Aerys, they’d say . On cloudy days it looked to be white rock. On moonless nights it was as black as coal . In snowstorms it seemed carved of snow .
Mormont’s raven flapped from a limb of an old oak to perch upon Jon’s saddle . The raven cocked its eye at him but ended up stroking its head knowingly . Val was clad all in white; white woolen breeches tucked into high boots of bleached white leather .
Jon had thrown the torch a long time ago . “She won’t mind. Will you, girl?” Tormund snorted again . The wildling chief ducked back inside his tent .
Tormund’s wildlings watched them pass, peering out from tents and lean-tos beneath leafless trees . When Mance Rayder had led the free folk down upon the Wall, his followers drove large herds of sheep and goats and swine before them . If not for the ferocity of the giants, those would have been slaughtered too .
Val looked the part and rode as if she had been born on horseback . He decided, not some willowy creature who sits up in a tower, brushing her hair and waiting for some knight to rescue her . It would never do to offend Her Grace before he opened his mouth .
“I must see Queen Selyse.” Her Grace would take it as a slight if he did not come to her at once . “The northmen too. Flint and Norrey. Leathers, you should be there as well.” He turned to Val. “My lady. With me, if you please.” “This queen of yours must be fierce if the legs of grown men give out beneath them when they meet her.” “I have heard it said that your queen has a great dark beard.”
Ser Patrek of King’s Mountain clad in his knightly raiment of white and blue and silver . When presented to Val, the knight sank to one knee to kiss her glove . She sounded as if she were talking to a dog. It was all that Jon could do not to laugh .
"Your Grace," he took a knee, and Queen Selyse gave the tiniest of nods . "I am told they have more giants with them," she pursed her lips .
The queen couldn’t tell if she was speaking of the mammoths or the giants . “Though such beasts might be useful to my lord husband in his battles.” “That ... that would be unwise, I think.” Selyse sniffed .
“You are insolent. I suppose that is only to be expected of a wildling.” The queen turned her glare on Jon . “I do not approve, Lord Commander. Nor will my lord husband. I cannot prevent you from opening your gate,” “Your Grace.” This time Val did not join him .
Greyscale is not so deadly as she claims, not in children . The sun was low in the west. A cup of hot spiced wine would serve me well just now . He found Leathers waiting for him by the winch cage .
A good lord must know his men, his father had once told him and Robb, back at Winterfell . Jon walked to the edge of the Wall and gazed down upon the killing ground where Mance Rayder’s host had died . It had been so long since he had last seen Arya Underfoot. Her face was always dirty . Would she still have that little sword he’d had Mikken forge for her? Stick them with the pointy end .
Torghen Flint was half a head shorter but must weigh twice as much . The Norrey looked like some old fox—wrinkled and slight of build, but sly-eyed and spry . Bowen Marsh came next, bundled up in a bearskin.
“It’s peaceful in my dungeons,” grumbled Old Flint . “The Weeper will not say the words,” insisted Othell Yarwyck . He will not wear the cloak. Even other raiders do not trust him”
“I would sooner have them dead in the ground,” said Yarwyck . “There are children in that camp, hundreds of them, thousands. Women as well.” “Spearwives.” “Some. Along with mothers and grandmothers, widows and maids ... would you condemn them all to die, my lord?” “Lord Snow,” said Old Flint .
Thenns worked bronze, and raiders like the Weeper carried stolen steel and iron swords looted off some corpse . But even those were oft of ancient vintage, dinted from years of hard use and spotted with rust.
“Tormund Giantsbane will never willingly disarm his people,” Jon said . “You may put your wildlings in these ruined forts, Lord Snow, but how will you make them stay?” Old Flint shook his head. “The Weeper’s word is worthless,” said Othell Yarwyck .
“I am not the trusting fool you take me for ... nor am I half wildling, no matter what you believe.” “One hundred boys between the ages of eight and sixteen. A son from each of their chiefs and captains, the rest chosen by lot. The rest will stand hostage for the loyalty of their sires.” Old Flint stomped his cane against the ice.
The men of the Night’s Watch have stood upon the Wall and fought these wildlings for eight thousand years . Now you mean to let them pass, to shelter them in our castles, to feed them and clothe them and teach them how to fight . Bowen Marsh opened his mouth. No words came out. A flush crept up his neck.
Jon Snow watched cracks along the Wall go from red to grey to black . Lady Melisandre would be lighting her nightfire and chanting, Lord of Light, defend us, for the night is dark and full of terrors . The Wall was made to stop them ... but the Wall must be manned .
Cersei had torn up the first shift they gave her, demanding the return of her own clothes, but that only left her naked and shivering . When they brought her another shift, she pulled it down over her head and thanked them, choking upon the words . The septas who brought her food would tell her nothing . She hated that. She asked about her twin often, but her gaolers gave no answer .
Septa Scolera was thick-waisted and short, with heavy breasts, olive skin, and a sour smell to her, like milk on the verge of going bad . They brought her food and water, emptied her chamber pot, and took away her shift for washing every few days, leaving her to huddle naked under her blanket until it was returned to her . She hated and despised all three of them, almost as much as she hated the men who had betrayed
Aurane Waters, her admiral, had fled to sea with the dromonds she had built for him . Harys Swyft and Grand Maester Pycelle had abandoned her to captivity . Even her cousin Lancel, who once had claimed to love her, was one of her accusers .
She had threatened, but threats had been received with stony faces and deaf ears . She had invoked the Mother’s mercy, appealing to the natural sympathy of one woman for another, but the three shriveled septas must have put their womanhood aside when they spoke their vows .
Septa Unella would growl when she shook the queen awake . Septa Moelle would tell her that it was her sins that kept her sleepless . "Only the innocent know the peace of untroubled sleep," she said .
Every night was broken into pieces by the rough hands of her tormentors . Each day found her duller than the day before, exhausted and feverish . Cersei had lost all sense of how long she had been imprisoned in this cell .
“His High Holiness will be most pleased. Only through confession and true repentance may our immortal souls be saved.” And for the rest of that long night they let her sleep. The owl and the wolf and the nightingale slipped by for once with their passage unseen and unremarked . Come morning, the queen felt almost like herself again .
Septa Scolera turned to glare back over her shoulder . The High Sparrow received her in his sanctum, an austere seven-sided chamber . He had not changed since the last time she had been in his presence .
Septa Unella dipped a quill in maester’s ink . "Your Grace shall be dealt with according to your sins," she realized . The High Septon’s eyes were fixed on hers .
Forgive me, High Holiness, but I did it for Tommen. Forgiveness comes only from the gods. What of Ser Lancel, who was your cousin and your lord husband’s squire? “I was lonely.” She choked back a sob . The High Septon made no move to comfort her.
Ser Osney Kettleblack insists that he smothered her predecessor at your behest . "No. I love Margaery as I would a daughter. And the other ... I complained of the High Septon, I admit it. He was Tyrion’s creature, weak and corrupt, a stain upon our Holy Faith. I bear some part of the blame ... but murder? No. You also stand accused of conspiring at the murder of your own lord husband, our late
Stannis wants the Iron Throne for himself, but his brother’s children stand in his way . The High Septon placed both hands flat upon the table and pushed himself to his feet . “I have confessed———to certain sins, aye. Others you deny.” Your trial will separate the truths from the falsehoods .
Septa Moelle and Scolera were waiting to lead her back up to her tower cell . "I feel reborn, as if a festering boil has been lanced and now at last I can begin to heal. I could almost fly," she said . It might be wiser to wait on Jaime until she had better notion of what was happening .
The queen crawled into her bed with a full stomach for the first time since she was taken, and slept through the black watches of the night undisturbed . Ser Kevan Lannister was still at her breakfast when the door swung open and the queen closed the door behind them . "You are still angry with me. I hear it in your voice. Forgive me, Uncle. It was wrong of me to throw my wine at you, but—” she said.
"I have done wicked things, I know, but I could not bear for you to hate me" Ser Kevan suffered the embrace for a few heartbeats before he finally raised his own arms to return it . "His Grace is well. He asks about you often." "No. Jaime is still in the riverlands, somewhere."
"We have had reports of sellswords landing all over the south," Ser Kevan said . "I do not have the strength to deal with them, not here." "Please, Uncle, take me out of here," Cersei did not care a fig for Stannis .
The High Septon speaks for the Seven here on earth. Strike at him, and you are striking at the gods themselves.” Her uncle raised a hand before she could protest . “I will serve as Tommen’s regent until he comes of age. Whatever the outcome, your rule is at an end. In which case you must be championed by a knight of the Kingsguard.” The whole governance of the realm was being handed to her enemies, Queen Margaery’s kith and kin .
The Redwyne twins have been declared innocent, and Hamish the Harper has died. The rest are in the dungeons under the Red Keep, in the charge of your man Qyburn. “There is more, worse. Will you sit down?” Cersei shook her head. “Tell me. What is it?” Ser Kevan gave her another scowl . The Red Viper had even tried to defend the Imp, had come within a hairbreadth of a victory that would
The Imp planned this all along. It was Tyrion who betrothed Myrcella to Prince Trystane. Now I see why.” “You see Tyrion in every shadow.” “I need to be with Tommen. These Kingsguard knights are as useless as nipples on a breastplate.” “At the hands of this man Darkstar, yes.” “That is what we have been told.” “Lord Tarly is drawing up a list of worthy knights for your brother to consider
The king can give a man a white cloak and tell him who to name and he will name him . "Qyburn will know. Trust him in this. You and I have had our differences, Uncle, but for the blood we share and the love you bore my father, for Tommen’s sake and the sake of his poor maimed sister, do as I ask you." Barristan Selmy refused to believe that Daenerys Targaryen was dead .
Hizdahr zo Loraq sat uneasily on his new throne . It had been a thousand years since Meereen last had a king . There were some even amongst old blood who thought they might have made a better choice than him .
Hizdahr’s blunder with Grey Worm had cost him the Unsullied . Grey Worn had informed the king that they were free men who took commands only from their mother . The pit fighters were the only reliable support, against a sea of enemies . Ser Barristan’s tone gave no hint of his true feelings .
Ser Barristan had been known to make that climb five or six times a day on the queen’s business, as the aches in his knees and the small of his back could attest . The royal apartments were still and silent . He preferring to establish his own suite of rooms deep in the heart of Meereen .
Despite all the queen had done, the sickness had spread, both within the city walls and without . Meereen’s markets were closed, its streets empty, but the crowds were sparse . Half of the city believed it, though as yet they did not have the courage to say such words aloud .
Selmy was a knight of Westeros, a man of the stormlands and the Dornish marches; his place was in the Seven Kingdoms, not here upon the sweltering shores of Slaver’s Bay . He had lost her father and her brother, just as he had been quick enough to stop her . Ten years ago I would have sensed what Daenerys meant to do . I am becoming old and slow. Small wonder Naharis mocked him as Ser
Ser Barristan had watched the dragon fly from the pit, his great black wings slapping at the shoulders of the bronze warriors at the gates . Beyond the gates had been a solid press of people . Maddened by the smell of dragon, horses below reared in terror, lashing out with iron-shod hooves .
Ser Barristan had hated the masks from the start and never more than now . The Shavepate had refused that ancient and honorable office . Without the queen to protect him, he takes a great risk coming here .
Barristan Selmy was not a bookish man, but had often glanced through the pages of the White Book . Some had been heroes, some weaklings, knaves, or cravens . Most were only men—quicker and stronger than most, more skilled with sword and shield . The worst of them overcame their flaws, did their duty, and died with their swords in their hands .
Aggo and Rakharo are blood of her blood ... and who knows the Doth raki sea better than Dothraki? He squeezed her shoulder. “They will find her if she can be found.” If she still lives. There were other khals who prowled the grass, horselords with khalasars whose riders numbered in the tens of thousands.
Ser Barristan had sworn his vows before the eyes of gods and men . He had seen things that it pained him to recall, and more than once wondered how much of the blood was on his own hands . If he had not gone into Duskendale to rescue Aerys from Lord Darklyn’s dungeons, the king might well have died there as Tywin Lannister sacked the town .
Selmy walked from pair to pair, watching them go at one another with blunted swords and spears with rounded heads . Baseborn, aye, but some will make good knights, and they love the queen. If not for her, all of them would have ended in the pits .
Hizdahr is my queen’s consort, however little I may like it . The first duty of the Kingsguard was to defend the king from harm or threat . Some kings thought it right and proper to dispatch Kingsguard to serve and defend their wives and children .
Four Brazen Beasts guarded the iron doors outside the pit where Viserion and Rhaegal were chained . The light of the torches shimmered off their masks—ape, ram, wolf, crocodile . It was time to find the Shavepate .
The Sons of the Harpy took his daughter and swore she would be returned unharmed once the queen was dead . Belwas and the dragon saved Daenerys. No one saved the girl . “Why?” Doubts gnawed at him .
The Harpy, Reznak, Hizdahr. This king will open the city gates to the Volantenes when they arrive . All those Daenerys freed will be enslaved again . Even some who were never slaves will be fitted for chains .
The Shavepate crossed his arms against his chest . "What of Hizdahr? He is still her consort. Her king. Her husband.” “Her poisoner.” “Where is your proof?” “The crown he wears is proof enough. The throne he sits. Open your eyes, old man. That is all he needed from Daenerys. Once he had it, why share the rule?” It had been so hot down in the pit . He could still
SUITOR Grief appeared alone at daybreak, her black sails stark against the pale pink skies of morning . Silently he cursed the Storm God for his malice, his rage a black stone in his belly . He had set sail from the Shields with ninety-three, of the hundred that had once made up the Iron Fleet .
Nine-and-ninety ships had left the Stepstones in three proud fleets . Twenty-two of Victarion’s own had straggled in, by threes and fours, sometimes alone . 14 of Ralf the Limper’s; only nine of those that had sailed with Red Ralsf Stonehouse .
The last ship to appear had been the Maiden’s Bane . The day before there had been nothing, and only Headless Jeyne and Fear . Two more days of empty seas and cloudless skies .
Victarion had slapped the Limper twice across the face and said, "The first is for the ships you lost, the second for your talk of curses. Speak of that again and I will nail your tongue to the mast. If the Crow’s Eye can make mutes, so can I." "More ships will come. The storms are done for now. I will have my fleet," he grumbled .
Victarion Greyjoy paid the gold price for food and water, though it shamed him, and took his ships back out to sea . The dragon queen had seen the galleys taking on provisions .
Victarion had four-and-fifty, less the Shark . The Crow’s Eye had sailed halfway across the world, reaving and plundering from Qarth to Tall Trees Town .
Euron had not made Victarion a gift of her; the Crow’s Eye meant to take her for himself . He sends me like a serving man to fetch her. How he will howl when I claim her for myself . The iron captain closed his good hand into a fist, his gaze sweeping across his fleet .
The Isle of Monkeys, that’s what they should call it, was once called ‘the Isle of a Hundred Battles’ . There were pigs as well: the biggest, blackest boars that any of the ironborn had ever seen . The monkeys, though ... the monkeys were a plague .
The last time Victarion had spent a night ashore, his dreams had been dark and disturbing and when he woke his mouth was full of blood . On the day the Doom came to Valyria, it was said, a wall of water three hundred feet high had descended on the island, drowning hundreds of thousands of men, women, and children . Some fisherfolk who had been at sea and a handful of Velosi spearmen posted in a st
Euron had sliced her tongue out before giving her to him . Euron's gifts are poisoned, the captain had reminded himself the day the dusky woman came aboard . I want none of his leavings, but they had come a long way since .
Red Ralf Stonehouse had broken the great fleet into squadrons . The dead cities rotting on that fervid, sweltering shore were best avoided . There were always provisions to be had for men who were not afraid to pay the iron price .
“Four-and-fifty ships is too few,” Victarion told the dusky woman, “but I can wait no longer. The only way to do this is to take the slavers unawares,” as once I did at Lannisport. Sweep in from the sea and smash them, then race for home before the Volantenes descend upon us.” A maid without a tongue could never let slip any secrets .
Maesters had their uses, but Victarion had nothing but contempt for Kerwin . Kerwin had smiled at the wrong man, and Burton Humble had knocked out four of his teeth . "Here is how you put an end to that," Kerwin said, slamming a dagger down on the table .
Maester Kerwin pressed the dagger deep. This time it hurt, but blood welled up as well as pus . Victarion grunted in approval. He sat there unflinching as the maester dabbed and squeezed and cleaned the pus away .
Serry's blade bit through the lobstered steel of the captain's gauntlet and the glove beneath into the meat of his palm . Victarion washed the cut, poured some vinegar over it, bound it up, and thought little more of it . The thought made him rage. No true man killed with poison .
Euron had taken Kerwin off Greenshield, where he had been in service to Lord Chester . It was Euron who insisted he be taken, to keep him from making mischief with his birds . The dusky woman was binding his hand with fresh linen, wrapping it six times around his palm .
The wizard was a monster of a man, as tall as Victarion himself and twice as wide . His skin was black. Not the nut brown of the Summer Islanders on their swan ships, nor the red-brown of the Dothraki horselords . The flames that had charred him still danced across his cheeks and forehead .
“A pink priest,” said Wulfe One-Ear. He spat. “Might be his robes caught fire, so he jumped overboard to put them out,” suggested Longwater Pyke, to general laughter. Even the monkeys were amused. They chattered overhead, and one flung down a handful of his own shit to spatter on the boards .
Moqorro crossed his arms against his chest . He did not appear frightened, though all around him men were calling for his death . His brother Euron had his pet wizards .
Longwater Pyke was the first to draw his dirk. “No!” Victarion bellowed. “Stand back! All of you. Pyke, put up your steel. Vole, back to your ship. Humble, take the wizard to my cabin. The rest of you, about your duties.” They stood about muttering, half with blades to hand, each looking to the others for resolve .
Victarion yanked off his glove and shoved his bad hand at the priest’s face . The linen was already discolored by blood and pus . “He had a rose on his shield, the man who gave this to me. I scratched my hand on a thorn.” “Even the smallest scratch can prove mortal, lord Captain, but I will need a blade. Silver would be best, but iron will serve. A brazier as well. There will be pain. Terri
TYRION The healer entered the tent murmuring pleasantries, but one sniff of the foul air and a glance at Yezzan zo Qaggaz put an end to that . "The pale mare," the man told Sweets . “My arts will not avail here,” the healer announced.
Tyrion had learned that Yezzan stood foremost amongst those Yunkish lords who favored honoring the peace with Meereen . Some wanted to assault the city immediately, lest the Volantenes rob them of their glory and the best part of the plunder . Two days ago Nurse had been hale and healthy .
"Some masters free their slaves when they die," said Penny . "You can’t drown in grass," the goat boy said . Tyrion was inclined to doubt that .
Sweets sounded numb. It was more than just fear of having her throat cut . The air was muggy and oppressive, yet still a welcome relief from the miasma of sweat, shit, and sickness that filled the inside of Yezzan’s palatial pavilion .
Six of Yezzan’s slave soldiers were squatting in the dust, throwing the bones and passing a wineskin from hand to hand . One was the serjeant called Scar, a black-tempered brute with a head as smooth as stone and the shoulders of an ox . The soldiers laughed. “Go on, Scar,” one mocked, “and be quick about it.” “You do not tell soldiers what to do,” Scar said. “You wear a collar round your neck the same
Tyrion wiped the blood from his split lip with the back of his hand . He needed Penny’s help to regain his feet . “Sweets said the master must have water. We don’t take commands from that freak neither.” No, thought Tyrion.
Ser Jorah Mormont was beaten every evening as the sun sank into Slaver’s Bay . The knight absorbed the beatings silently; the only sounds were the muttered curses of the slaves who beat him . He was naked except for a breechclout, a filthy bit of yellow rag .
Wearing a collar conferred certain advantages, particularly a gilded collar inscribed with the name of Yezzan zo Qaggaz . The collars gave them leave to go anywhere they might wish within the camp . Elsewhere teams of slaves were raising ramps of stone and sand beneath their mangonels and scorpions, angling them upward at the sky .
The eyes were where a dragon was most vulnerable, the eyes, and the brain behind them . The scales there were just as tough as those along the dragon’s back and flanks . These would-be dragonslayers might as well try to quench a fire with a spear thrust .
"I know what I saw," a slave in a rusted iron collar was saying, as Tyrion and Penny shuffled along in the queue, and I saw that dragon ripping off arms and legs, tearing men in half, burning them down to ash and bones . The queen climbed onto the dragon’s back and flew away," insisted a tall brown woman . “They were there,” said the old man, but Tyrion could not help himself .
Tyrion sketched a courtly bow, and refrained from pointing out that one of the pigs was really a dog . "The sow I ride is actually my sister. We have the same nose, could you tell? A wizard cast a spell on her, but if you give her a big wet kiss, she will turn into a beautiful woman," Tyrion said .
Tyrion had put a quarrel through the groin of his own sire, a man Ser Barristan had known and served for years . The queen watched us tilt, but then Penny had landed a blow on his shield and the moment was gone, never to return . Nurse had been clapping irons round their ankles to make sure they would not attempt escape on their way to their master .
The life of most slaves was not all that different from the life of a serving man at Casterly Rock, it seemed to him . True, some slaveowners and their overseers were brutal and cruel, but the same was true of some Westerosi lords . “Ghazdor the Great-hearted?” Tyrion said sweetly .
The lie about the soldiers got old one-leg moving much more quickly . They started back, each of the dwarfs carrying two brim-full pails of sweet water and Ser Jorah with two pails in each hand . The day was growing hotter, the air as thick and wet as damp wool .
The big knight raised two blackened eyes and looked at him as he might look at a bug . “I have paid her so much false coin that she half thinks she’s rich.” He had even kept the truth of Daznak’s Pit from her .
Nurse was paying out some silver to a pit man on a lost wager when he spied Penny leading Crunch . The confusion in his eyes was gone in half a heartbeat, but not before Tyrion grasped what it meant . Nurse did not expect us back. He looked around at other faces. None of them expected us back .
Tyrion lowered his pails to the ground. The handles had gouged deep grooves in his fingers . “That’s the tents we want, there.” “The Second Sons?” A queer smile split Ser Jorah’s face . Brown Ben Plumm and I have played five games of cyvasse.
Tyroshi flicked at Tyrion’s collar with his spearpoint, ringing the little golden bell . Tyrion slipped a hand under Penny’s tunic, just to be sure .
Tyrion slung Penny over one shoulder . He knew where they were going: the big tent on the far side of the fire pit, its painted canvas walls cracked and faded by years of sun and rain . A few sellswords turned to watch them pass, and a camp follower sniggered .
Tyrion drew a sword, a slender bravo’s blade with a jeweled hilt . "You don’t want to get any of my blood on you. Blood carries the disease. And you’ll want to boil our clothes, or burn them with you still in them, Yollo."
House Plumm is sworn to Casterly Rock, and as it happens I know a bit of its history . You’re less purple and more brown than the Plumms at home, but unless your name’s a lie, you’re a westerman, by blood if not by birth . The queen’s dragons were fond of you, were they not? “No one. Most of the stories you hear about dragons are fodder for fools .
“I’ve brought you one.” Tyrion jerked a thumb at Mormont . “Lord Plumm, who are these two friends of yours? The pink one is annoying.” The bravo curled a lip .
JON That night he dreamt of wildlings howling from the woods . Giants lumbered amongst them, forty feet tall, with mauls the size of oak trees . “Flame,” he cried, “feed them flame,” but there was no one to pay heed .
Jon was armored in black ice, but his blade burned red in his fist . As the dead men reached the top of the Wall he sent them down to die again . He stabbed and slashed Donal Noye and gutted Deaf Dick Follard . It was Robb before him now, his hair wet with melting snow .
Jon Snow rose and dressed in darkness, as Mormont’s raven muttered across the room . He broke his fast in the cellar with his officers, washed down with thin yellow beer . And if not, it may turn to blood and carnage .
Dolorous Edd Tollett had come in during the night with six wagons from Long Barrow . Edd had been sent to gather up as many spearwives as his wagons would hold and bring them back to join their sisters . It was strangely comforting to see Edd’s face again .
Jon Snow chose eight men in his prime: Ty and Mully, Left Hand Lew, Big Liddle, Rory, Fulk the Flea, Garrett Greenspear . And Leathers, Castle Black’s new master-at-arms, to show the free folk that even a man who had fought for Mance in the battle beneath the Wall could find a place of honor in the Night’s Watch . The stars are going out, Jon thought .
On either end of the long tunnel, gates swung open and iron bars unlocked . Dawn light shimmered on the ice above, pink and gold and purple . Dolorous Edd had not been wrong. The Wall would soon be weeping. Gods grant it weeps alone .
Tormund Horn-Blower lifted his own warhorn to his lips . From dawn till dusk Jon watched the wildlings pass . Some of the boys were led to the gate by a mother or a father . More came alone .
Hornfoot boys walked blithe and barefoot through snowdrifts . Other lads had knives made of bone or stone or dragonglass, spiked clubs, tanglenets, even here and there a rust-eaten old sword . Six boys arrived on horses, two on mules and a pair turned up with a goat .
Two boys looked enough alike to be twins, but Tormund insisted they were cousins . Three hostages were sons of Alfyn Crowkiller, an infamous raider slain by Qhorin Halfhand .
Two of the boys were girls in disguise . One came meekly enough, the other kicking and biting . Iron Emmett and Dolorous Edd were both of whom he trusted .
Dryn was a chunky boy, with short legs, thick arms, and a wide red face . Dryn had none of Bran’s sweetness, though . Five hundred, Jon Snow judged, as they moved out from beneath the trees . One in every ten of them came mounted but all came armed .
"You might have sent the women first," he said to Tormund Giantsbane . "You bought your bloody horse, Jon Snow. Don’t mean that we can’t count his teeth," Jon snorted .
Some stared with cold dead eyes as they went by fingering their sword hilts . Others smiled at him like long-lost kin, though a few of those smiles discomfited Jon Snow more than any glare . Red-bearded Gerrick Kingsblood brought three daughters . They will make fine wives, and give their husbands strong sons of royal blood .
chariots were fearsome beasts, as big as direwolves . Older children looked up at Jon with eyes as dark and hard as the stones they clutched . A few thin reindeer brought up the rear, with the great dogs snapping at the heels of stragglers.
Jon Snow drank deep as the sun crept across the bright blue sky . It took the best part of an hour before the way was opened again . "You need a bigger gate," Tormund warned him .
Jon turned in his saddle, frowning. And Joramun blew the Horn of Winter and woke giants from the earth . By afternoon the sun had gone, and the day turned grey and gusty . Others had seen the same omen in flat white clouds .
Shadows never go away. Might be you don’t see them, but they’re always clinging to your heels.” “Did they trouble you on your way south?” “They never came in force, or they were with us all the same, nibbling at our edges.” “We lost more outriders than I care to think about, and it was worth your life to fall behind or wander off,” said Jon Snow. “Less they find you first. The night that Torwynd ... my boy,
Longclaw had been forged in the fires of old Valyria . Dragon-steel, Sam called it. Stronger than any common steel, lighter, harder, sharper ... But words in a book were one thing . The true test came in battle. “You are not wrong,” Jon said .
The passage of the free folk had turned the ground to mud and muck . By late afternoon the snow was falling steadily, but the river of wildlings had dwindled to a stream . Columns of smoke rose from the trees where their camp had been .
Jon Snow had never seen a boar so big or ugly . The man beside him was no beauty either; hulking, black-browed, he had a flat nose, heavy jowls dark with stubble, small black close-set eyes . Ghost turned his head and spat. “A skinchanger.” It was not a question. Somehow he knew. “Ghost, down. Stay. Stay!” “You go ahead,” Jon told him .
Bowen Marsh was waiting for him south of the Wall, with a tablet full of numbers . “You close it good and tight. They’re coming, crow.” He smiled as ugly a smile as Jon had ever seen .
Jon Snow had been a place of silence and shadows, where a meagre company of men in black moved like ghosts amongst the ruins of a fortress that had once housed ten times their numbers . Strange voices echoed down the yards, and free folk were coming and going along icy paths that had only known the black boots of crows for years . Donal Noye’s old armory was still dark and silent, however, and Jon’s rooms back of the
Ser Barristan Selmy slipped a hand beneath the fold of his cloak and loosened his sword in its scabbard . Daenerys Targaryen preferred to hold court from a bench of polished ebony, smooth and simple . No dragon chair can replace a dragon no matter how elaborately it is carved .
Goghor the Giant was a huge hulk of a man with a brutal, scarred face . Back of them were Belaquo Bone-breaker and the cold-eyed Khrazz . The day was young and fresh, yet he felt bone-tired, as if he’d fought all night .
In the Shavepate’s place stood a fat man in a muscled breastplate and lion’s mask . Marghaz zo Loraq, the king’s cousin, new commander of the Brazen Beasts stood between the pillars, torchlight shining off the polished brass of their masks . It made an ominous sound, angry. It reminded Selmy of the sound a hornets’ nest might make an instant before all came boiling out.
A fat man tore off his bandages to show the court his burned arm . It took six Brazen Beasts to pull them apart and drag them from the hall . “Queen Daenerys will return to Meereen in her own time in all her might and majesty,” a freedman screeched .
Ser Barristan spied the Dornish princeling and his two companions . He wondered how much they understood of what was being said . And Daenerys Targaryen was still a young girl, as she herself would claim when it pleased her to play the innocent .
Ser Gerris Drinkwater was whispering something to Yronwood . He was tall and lean and comely, with a swordsman’s grace and a courtier’s wit . When he saw the prince, Hizdahr zo Loraq frowned .
Quentyn had grown up amongst the courts of Dorne . Nor was Prince Lewyn his only uncle. He is kin to the Red Viper . Daenerys had taken another for her consort, but she would be free to wed again .
Bloodbeard pulled a severed head from his sack and flung it at the seneschal . Reznak gave a squeak of fright and leapt aside, leaving spots of blood on the marble floor as it fetched up against the foot of King Hizdahr’s dragon throne .
Groleo had crossed half the world with the old seafarer, from Pentos to Qarth and back again to Astapor . The slaver in the maroon tokar produced a parchment . “I have the honor to bear this message from the council of masters” .
Yurkhaz zo Yunzak was your supreme commander, says Ser Barristan . He stumbled on steps as he tried to flee the dragon and was crushed beneath feet of his own slaves and companions . “Who is this who speaks without the king’s leave?” asked Selmy of a rabbit .
A hush fell across the hall . Then came the murmurs and the mutters, whispered curses . It took the Brazen Beasts pounding the butts of spears against the floor .
Prince Quentyn Martell strode across the hall, his long white cloak rippling behind him . "Your father’s court was never half so lively," he heard Drinkwater japing . The Dornishmen exchanged a look. "Our arms and armor are back in our apartments"
"Swords can be replaced," said Ser Barristan . Prince Quentyn, the king made note of you today. He frowned," Gerris Drinkwater laughed . "A prince does well to think before he acts. This king ... I do not know what to think of him"
Prince Quentyn Martell went pale . "Me? I would never ... you cannot think I had any part in any ..." "Others might," said Ser Barristan .
Hizdahr would be pleased to blame him for the locusts, all the same ... but the king may yet have need of the Stormcrows, and he will lose them if he appears complicit in the death of their captain .
Selmy had won that name when he was ten years old, a new-made squire . So he borrowed a warhorse and some plate from Lord Dondarrion’s armory and entered the lists at Blackhaven as a mystery knight . Prince Duncan helped him to his feet and removed his helm .
"Let him think what he wants, so long as he delivers the message," said Quentyn . "I’ll wager you get your meeting too, if only so Rags can have Pretty Meris cut your liver out and fry it up with onions. We should be heeding Selmy."
Quentyn and Gerris left the Great Pyramid an hour shy of sunset in case they took a wrong turn or had difficulty finding the purple lotus . The Dornishmen wore their sword belts .
Quentyn frowned. “His name was Harghaz.” “Hizdahr, Humzum, Hagnag, what does it matter? I call them all Harzoo. He was no dragonslayer. All he did was get his arse roasted black and crispy.” “He died bravely, is what you mean.” “Even if the queen returns, she’ll still be married.” “No one will care what his name was,” said Arch.
Cletus will never father a child unless he left a bastard in the belly of that tavern wench he liked. Will will never have his wedding. Their deaths should have some meaning, Quentyn said .
The sun had sunk below the city wall by the time they found the purple lotus . A gruff voice answered through the door, growing something unintelligible in the mongrel tongue of Slaver’s Bay . The space was much larger than it had seemed from without, stretching off to right and left into the adjoining hovels .
Quentyn wore a brown wool traveler’s cloak, with silvery chain mail glimmering underneath . It was so dark that the prince had to feel his way to keep from slipping . The Tattered Prince himself was seated at the table, nursing a cup of wine .
“I understand you are a prince. Would that I had known. Will you drink? Zahrina offers food as well. Her bread is stale and her stew is unspeakable. Dog, she says, but I think rat is more likely. It will not kill you, though. I have found that it is only when the food is tempting that one must beware.
"I am a prince of Dorne," said Pretty Meris . "You are not the first to swear me your swords, take my coin, and run. All of them have reasons," he said . The Tattered Prince gave a shrug .
The Tattered Prince turned back to Quentyn . “She laughed at him,” said Pretty Meris . "I must strive to be more assiduous about consulting it.” “Yurkhaz zo Yunzak was the man who hired you.”
The Tattered Prince took a sip of wine and said, “A vexing question. But this is the way of life for we men of the free companies. One war ends, another begins. Perhaps there is always someone fighting someone somewhere.
Pretty Meris, a proven liar and oathbreaker, says he wants to contract with us and pay in promises . "I need you to help me steal a dragon," Prince Frog says . Black Balaq commanded one thousand bows. In his youth, Jon Connington shared the disdain most knights had for bowmen .
Black Balaq's men used crossbows, another third the double-curved horn-and-sinew bows of the east . The castle rose from the shores of Cape Wrath, on a lofty crag of dark red stone surrounded on three sides by the surging waters of Shipbreaker Bay . Its only approach was defended by a gatehouse, behind which lay the long bare ridge the Conningtons called the griffin’s throat .
The crash of wood on wood brought two men to the battlements . Black Balaq’s archers took down both of them before they could rub the sleep out of their eyes . The gate turned out to be closed but not barred; it gave way at the second blow .
Connington watched them dash off, then beckoned to the Halfmaester . Homeless Harry was impressed by the swiftness of their victory . "Let them come. This place can stand against twenty times our number," Strickland said .
Jon Connington climbed the east tower, the tallest at Griffin’s Roost . As he climbed, he remembered past ascents with his lord father . At the welcoming feast, the prince had taken up his silver-stringed harp and played for them .
Jon Connington had ruled broad lands extending many leagues to the west, north, and south . But his father and his father’s father had never lost their lands. He had. I rose too high, loved too hard, dared too much. I tried to grasp a star, overreached, and fell .
Ronnet Connington had lost it all at Stoney Sept, in his arrogance . He had known that Robert’s head upon a spear would have put an end to the rebellion . King Aerys had named him Hand and given him an army .
Robert swept down on Stoney Sept, closed off the town, and began a search . They moved him from one secret bolt-hole to the next, always one step ahead of the king’s men . The whole town was a nest of traitors . At the end they had the usurper hidden in a brothel .
Myles Toyne replied: “There is where you’re wrong” Red Ronnet would have burned every living creature in it . When the fires guttered out, he would have sent his men in to find the bones of Robert Baratheon . Stark and Tully turned up with their host, and they would have accepted and turned for home with their tails between their legs.”
Jon Connington had last been lord: a grizzled serjeant, blind in one eye; a couple of the washerwomen; the cook, who had grown enormously fat; the castle armorer . He brought them forward one by one, asked each man his name, then bid them kneel and swear him their allegiance . "Some of you will know me," he told them .
Ten thousand men had sailed from Volon Therys, with all their weapons, horses, elephants . Not quite half that number had turned up thus far on Westeros, a deserted stretch of coast on the edge of the rainwood . But with both Robert and his brother Renly slain, everything was changed .
Ser Tristan Rivers had set off simultaneously for the seat of House Morrigen at Crow’s Nest, and Laswell Peake for Rain House, the stronghold of the Wyldes . Not one of the great cogs carrying the elephants had turned up yet . It would be some time before they had the strength to face foes in the field .
Lord Stannis Baratheon remains in open rebellion and the ironborn of the islands have raised up a king as well . “And Dorne?” The Vale was far away; Dorna was close . Without Daenerys and her dragons, Dornen was central to their hopes .
Jon Connington remembered Prince Rhaegar’s wedding all too well . Elia was never worthy of him. She was frail and sickly from the first . She would bear no more children, the maesters said .
Jon Connington slept that night in the lord’s chambers beneath a dusty canopy of red-and-white velvet . He woke at dawn to the sound of falling rain and the timid knock of a serving man anxious to learn how his new lordan would break his fast . When the food and wine had been brought up, he barred the door, emptied the jug into a bowl, and soaked his hand in it . Lady Lemore had prescribed a 
Connington and Strickland, Haldon Halfmaester, Black Balaq, Ser Franklyn Flowers, Malo Jayn, Ser Brendel Byrne, Dick Cole, and Lymond Pease assembled in the solar . Harry Stricklyand missed his elephants, did Homeless Harry. “Mandrake had no archers with him?”
The slower the Iron Throne was to react, the longer they would have to gather their strength and bring allies to the cause . There should be ships on Estermont. It is an island .
The Prince of Dorne had the power to defy House Lannister and its allies . "Prince Doran is a cautious man, that’s true. He will never join us unless he is convinced that we will win. So to persuade him we must show our strength," said Strickland .
Jon Connington gave the plump captain-general a cool look . "We did not cross half the world to wait. Our best chance is to strike hard and fast, before King’s Landing knows who we are. I mean to take Storm’s End. A nigh-impregnable stronghold, and Stannis Baratheon’s last foothold in the south.
Connington had tried his best to dissuade the prince from giving Duckfield that cloak . He pointed out that the honor might best be held in reserve for warriors of greater renown whose fealty would add luster to their cause . Duck might have six ducklings trailing after him, each more blindingly adequate than the last .
Asha Greyjoy was the kraken’s daughter, not some pampered maiden who could not bear to look at ugliness . It had been a dark, cold, hungry day, like the day before that . They had spent most of it out on the ice, shivering beside a pair of holes they’d cut in smaller of the frozen lakes .
Six queen's men were wrestling two enormous pinewood poles into holes six other queen’s men had dug out . The Lord of Light may turn his fiery eye upon us and melt these thrice-cursed snows . "This is the wroth of the old gods come upon us. It is them we should appease," said Big Bucket Wull .
Ser Clayton Suggs was Godry’s strong right hand. Or should it be his withered arm? Asha did not like Ser Clayton. It is not the god he loves, it is the flames, she concluded . The storm had been three days from Winterfell for nineteen days .
Asha Greyjoy put no faith in their red god, yet she prayed they had right of that . Ser Clayton Suggs might get his heart’s desire . The four flesh-eaters were naked when Ser Clayton drove them out .
Ser Corliss Penny, the oldest of the four, had been their serjeant . He alone remained defiant, spitting venom at the queen’s men as they prodded him along with their spears . “You hear me, Farring? Giantslayer? I laughed when your fucking cousin died, Godry.” A blow from a spear butt drove the man to his knees but did not silence him .
Stannis Baratheon stood grim-faced by the funeral pyre as the lad’s body was consigned to the flames . He had not emerged since ... though from time to time His Grace was glimpsed upon the tower roof, outlined against the beacon fire that burned there night and day . Calling out for Lady Melisandre, insisted others .
Asha had been given to understand, only castellan of Karhold for as long as the true lord remained a captive of the Lannisters . A few white hairs were all that separated him from baldness; his forked beard was equal parts white and grey, but always ragged . She wondered if Lord Arnolf had come to view the burning at the king’s behest, that he might witness the power of the red god for himself.
Ser Corliss Penny stepped forward clutching the torch with both hands . He swung it about his head in a circle, fanning the flames . “Lord of Light, accept this sacrifice,” a hundred voices echoed .
Asha Greyjoy had seen priests of her own people slit the throats of thralls and give their bodies to the sea to honor the Drowned God . The heat of the flames beat against her face, but even so she shivered . King Stannis walked away, back to the solitude of his watch-tower .
Ser Clayton’s face cried out for an axe between the eyes . But she was axeless here, so the best that she could do was try to wrench away . “My lady asked you to let her go,” said Aly Mormont .
Ser Justin Massey deserved that much, whatever his motives . “I have lost faith in more than that,” Masseey said . "I will not win you friends amongst the queen’s men," the She-Bear . Stannis had eight hundred horses when we marched from Deepwood Motte .
Asha peeled off her fur mittens, wincing as she flexed her fingers . Pain shot up her legs as her half-frozen feet began to thaw . Asha hung her cloak on a peg inside the door after shaking off the snow .
Asha took a sip of ale and fell upon the horse flesh . Massey cut his own meat into chunks and stabbed one with his dagger . "His Grace has seen victory in his fires," Foxglove said .
Ser Ormund Wylde had emerged as a clear favorite . He had heard rumors that some of the men-at-arms were wagering on which of the great knights and lords would be the next to die . Lord Peasebury said gloomily that he knew what they were doing .
Lord Arnolf Karstark shoved himself up, a vulture rising from its prey . One spotted hand clutched at his son’s shoulder for support . He said, “Your courage is admirable, Lord KarStark, but courage will not breach the walls of Winterfell.”
Ser Justin rolled his eyes. “Gods be good, are all you Karstarks mad?” Richard Horpe said. “You forget yourself, Justin. We have but one god here. Speak not of demons in this company. Only the Lord of Light can save us now.” He put his hand upon the hilt of his sword .
A raven was perched atop one, pulling at the tatters of burned flesh . The blowing snow covered the ashes at the base of the pyre and crept up the dead man’s leg as far as his ankle . God of my fathers, if you can hear me in your watery halls beneath the waves, grant me just one small throwing axe .
Suggs used that word to demean women when it was the only part of a woman they valued . When he says the word, he means it. "Your king gelds men for rape," she reminded him . "I’d need to kill you after, and I’d sooner see you burn." There’s that horse again.
Ser Clayton Suggs strode through the snow, putting himself between the riders and the king’s tower . “Who goes there? Halt! Halt!” The lead rider reined up before him . They are too many to be scouts and too few to make a vanguard .
“I did, ser.” The speaker came forward on his garron . He was very tall, very thin, so long-legged that it was a wonder his feet did not drag along the ground . A scarf concealed the tall man’s features, but atop his head was perched the queerest hat Asha had seen since the last time she had sailed .
A girl and an old man thought Asha, as the two were dumped rudely in the snow before her . The girl was shivering violently, even in her furs . She had seen scarecrows with more flesh, his hair bone-white and filthy .
Ghiscari Dawn was delivered to Victarion Greyjoy in chains . The galley’s captain said he was thrown overboard, a sacrifice to the Drowned God . Daenerys Targaryen was not dead, Moqorro said .
The sorcerer priest was garbed in somber black, but for a hint of golden thread at collar, cuffs, and hem . There was no red cloth aboard the Iron Victory, but it was not meet that Moqorro go about in the salt-stained rags he had been wearing when the Vole fished him from the sea . Victarion had commanded Tom Tidewood to sew new robes for him from whatever was at hand, and had
The Iron Fleet numbered four-and-fifty once again . When the rains moved on, three ships were found to have vanished . The sorcerer priest would kindle a fire on the forecastle of the Iron Victory .
Dove was a Myrish cog on her way to Yunkai by way of New Ghis . Victarion claimed that treasure for himself . They were neither slaves nor slavers, but free Myrmen and seasoned sailors .
The crews of the galleys denied it; the deaths were from a bloody flux . Victarion told them they were now free men and would have privilege of rowing for the Iron Fleet . "The dragon queen frees slaves and so do I," he said .
"We will fall upon them like a thunderbolt," he said, as he squeezed the woman’s breast . He could almost hear the god’s voice welling up from the depths of the sea . The arm the priest had healed was hideous to look upon, pork crackling from elbow to fingertips .
Three more prizes were taken before Yaros dwindled off their sterns . A fat gallea fell to the Vole and Grief, and a trading galley to Manfryd Merlyn of Kite . Victarion was displeased to hear that it had taken two of his own ships to bring the fishermen to heel .
"Take care, priest," Victarion Greyjoy told the dusky woman . "Every night in my fires I glimpse the glory that awaits you," he said . The Iron Islands shall be free again and the Old Way will return .
Grief and Warrior Wench and Victarion’s own Iron Victory captured the slaver galley from Yunkai in the waters due north of the Yellow City . In her holds were twenty perfumed boys and four score girls destined for the pleasure houses of Lys . The ironborn had little trouble taking her, and the ironborn was named the Willing Maiden .
"Every ship we capture makes us stronger," Victarion told his ironborn . "We are like to meet with ships from all three Slaver Cities, ships from Tolos and Elyria and New Ghis, even ships from Qarth," he said . He took care not to mention the green galleys of Old Volantis .
A great wind came up then, a wind that filled their sails and swept them north and east and north again, toward Meereen and its pyramids of many-colored bricks . Victarion Greyjoy brought forth the dragon horn that the Crow’s Eye had found amongst the smoking wastes of great Valyria . A twisted thing it was, six feet long from end to end, gleaming black and banded with dark Valyrian steel .
The Crow’s Eye swore this horn would bind dragons to my will . But how will that serve me if the price is death? "Your brother did not sound the horn himself. Nor must you.” Moqorro pointed to the band of steel .
The priests used the language of Braavos, though once for several minutes three spoke heatedly in High Valyrian . The girl understood the words, mostly, but they spoke in soft voices, and she could not always hear . After three hours of wine and words, the priests took their leave .
The gift of the Many-Faced God is not a child’s plaything . You would kill to serve some lord, to fatten our purses, to stroke our vanity . All men must serve. A servant must be humble and obedient .
“You will be the very goddess of humility, I am sure. But can you pay the price?” "What price?” “The price is you. The price is all you have and all you ever hope to have.” She almost bit her lip again, but this time she caught herself and stopped . “My face is a dark pool, hiding everything, showing nothing.” “I don’t know a lot of people.” “He is one of them. A stranger.” “No one you love, no one you hate,” “No.”
Cat of the Canals had no father, so she kept that thought to herself . He scowled at her and went on past, sloshing through a puddle . Cat thought it must be dyed and wondered why he had not dyed his hair .
The more she watched his hands, the more she came to hate them . “When I kill him he will look in my eyes and thank me.” “If he does, you will have failed. It would be best if he takes no note of you at all.” Cat concluded after watching him for a few days.
“I will do it. I said I would. I will,” Cat said . “It is one thing to write such a binder, though, and another to make good on it.” Cat understood. One of them must hate him .
He had guards. Two of them, a tall thin man and a short thick one . They went with him everywhere, from when he left his house in the morning till he returned at night . The old man waited until the broth had cooled before he took a sip .
Red Roggo had taught her how to use it, but she had not slit a purse since back before they took away her eyes . When she was satisfied that she still knew how to do it, she sharpened the steel on a whetstone until its edge glimmered silver-blue in the candlelight .
Eighteen steps brought them to the vaults, where five arched passageways spread out like the fingers of a man’s hand . One passage was closed off by a heavy iron door . The priest hung the lantern from a hook, slipped a hand inside his robe, and produced an ornate key . Gooseprickles rose along her arms. The sanctum.
She had reached fifty-four when the steps finally ended at another iron door . The kindly man lifted his lantern and flicked its shutters wide open . A thousand faces were gazing down on her . She saw old faces and young faces, pale faces and dark faces, smooth faces and wrinkled faces .
“This will hurt,” the priest warned her, “but pain is the price of power. Do not move.” Still as stone, she thought . She could feel the blood washing down her face, a rippling red curtain falling across her brow and cheeks and chin . “Bring me the face,” said the kindly man .
A face floated in front of her, fat, bearded, brutal, his mouth twisted with rage . The girl took a deep shuddering breath, and realized it was true . She felt her cheeks, touched her eyes, traced the line of her jaw .
Her father beat her so often and so brutally that she was never truly free of pain or fear until she came to us.” “Did you kill him?” “She asked the gift for herself, not for her father.” He must have read her thoughts. “Death came for him in the end, as it comes for all men.” He lifted up the lamp. “We are done here.” For now. She could almost see their lips moving, whispering dark sweet secrets to one another in words too faint to hear.
In the House of Black and White, you never knew who might be listening . An ugly girl should dress in ugly clothing, so she chose a stained brown cloak fraying at the hem, a musty green tunic smelling of fish, and a pair of heavy boots . Cat of the Canals had sold cockles and mussels amongst the temples .
The Sailor’s Wife had walked her rounds with her and told her tales of the city’s stranger gods . The first head devours the dying, and the reborn emerge from the third . Only those who learn to walk it properly will ever find their way to wisdom, the priests say .
The old man was ensconced inside the soup shop at his usual table, counting a purse of coins as he haggled with a ship’s captain . She perched atop a wooden piling twenty yards away as the wind tugged at her cloak with ghostly fingers . It was almost noon before she saw the man she wanted, a prosperous shipowner she had seen doing business with the old man three times before .
Cat of the Canals had known these alleys, and the ugly girl remembered . She darted left, vaulted a low wall, leapt across a small canal . By now the shipowner would have gathered up coins and cane and limped on to the soup shop .
The priest picked up the coin and tossed it into the pool . "You have much and more to learn, but it may be you are not hopeless," the priest said . On the morrow you will go to Izembaro to begin your first apprenticeship .
Cersei paced her cell, restless as the caged lions that had lived in Casterly Rock when she was a girl . She and Jaime used to dare each other to climb into their cage, and once she worked up enough courage to slip her hand between two bars and touch one of the great tawny beasts . The lion had turned his head to stare at her with huge golden eyes, but even so she would not pull her hand back .
Jaime’s sword hand was gone, and so was he, vanished with the woman Brienne somewhere in the riverlands . The queen had to find another defender or today’s ordeal would be the least of her travails . She had to reach Tommen, no matter the costs. He will do as he is told . If she stayed here, she was doomed, and the only way she would return was by walking .
Septa Unella sat as still as a stone statue as the shears clicked . She bared the queen’s head first . They took the other crown away from me, and now they are stealing this one .
Septa Scolera: "Does Your Grace find this amusing?" she said . "The streets are filthy," said Septa Moelle . The queen’s long imprisonment was at an end .
Cersei Lannister had come to Baelor’s Sept a queen, riding in a litter . She was leaving bald and barefoot. But I am leaving. That is all that matters. The Great Sept of Baelor was crowded with faithful come for the dawn service . When the queen’s procession made its appearance a sudden silence fell and a thousand eyes turned to follow her .
A gusty wind was blowing, and it set the bottom of her robe snapping and flapping at her legs . It came to her suddenly that she had stood in this very spot before, on the day Lord Eddard Stark had lost his head . Stark’s eldest son would have followed him as Lord of Winterfell, but Sansa would have stayed at court, a hostage .
Joff Slynt had commanded that Stark’s head be struck off, and Ser Ilyn Payne had hastened to obey . It was just there, the queen recalled, gazing at the spot . She stood on the steps of the Great Sept again, only this time it was her the mob was staring at .
Septa Unella stepped up on the queen’s right, Septa Scolera behind her . Cersei had been a year old when her grandfather died . She had been sent forth naked to walk through the streets of Lannisport .
Cersei had heard stories growing up from the mouths of washerwomen and guardsmen who had been there . They spoke of how the woman had wept and begged, of the desperate way she clung to her garments when she was ordered to disrobe . She remembered one guard saying, “so haughty you’d think she’d forgot she come from dirt. Once we got her clothes off her, though, she was just another whore.” Lord Tywin’s blood was
Cersei ignored her. There will be more, and worse. These creatures have no sweeter joy in life than jeering at their betters . She would keep her eyes on Aegon’s High Hill across the city, on the towers of the Red Keep shimmering in the light .
The Targaryen dynasty had produced kings both bad and good, but none as beloved as Baelor, that pious gentle septon-king who loved the smallfolk and the gods in equal parts . Tyrion used to say that King Baelor was terrified of his own cock .
Septa Scolera rang her bell, singing, “Shame, shame upon the sinner, shame, shame.” The Poor Fellows went before them, forcing men aside with their shields, walling off a narrow path . Cersei followed where they led, her head held stiffly, her eyes on the far distance .
The queen walked on, clad only in gooseprickles and pride . She looked for the Red Keep, but it was hidden now, walled off from her gaze . The queen tried to walk faster, but soon came up against the backs of the Stars in front of her .
Cersei walked on. I am blind and deaf, and they are worms, she told herself . “Shame, shame,” the septas sang. “Chestnuts, hot roast chestnuts,” a peddler cried .
The paving stones were cracked and uneven, slippery underfoot, and rough against her soft feet . Cersei cried out in pain. “You could have given me sandals, you could have done that much.” The knight wrenched at her arm again, as if she were some common serving wench .
"Shame, shame, shame on the sinner," chanted the septas . "That can’t be the queen," a boy said, “she’s saggy as my mum.” This is my penance, Cersei told herself . The queen began to see familiar faces .
A man in a butcher’s apron pulled his cock out of his breeches, grinning . Cersei began to climb. If anything, the jeers and shouts were cruder here . She saw men whose teeth had been filed into points, hags with goiters as big as their heads .
She felt old, used, filthy, ugly. There were stretch marks on her belly from the children she had borne . Without a gown to hold them up, they sagged against her chest . I should not have let them see. Gowned and crowned, she was only a woman, not so very different from their wives .
Ser Boros Blount and Ser Meryn Trant strode toward her in their pale plate and snowy cloaks . The queen felt cold steel slide beneath her, a pair of great armored arms lifting her off the ground, lifting her up into the air as easily as she had lifted Joffrey when he was still a babe . A giant, thought Cersei, dizzy, as he carried her with great strides toward the gatehouse .
Cersei Lannister sworn that he will not speak until all of His Grace’s enemies are dead and evil has been driven from the realm . “If it please Your Grace, Ser Robert has taken a holy vow of silence,” Qyburn said .
Brown Ben dipped the quill into the inkpot, leaned over the first parchment, looked up . “Would you prefer me to sign Yollo or Hugor Hill?” The dwarf laughed and signed the parchment, Tyrion of House Lannister .
Tyrion of House Lannister, he promised to pay the bearer of the note one hundred golden dragons . Every stroke of the quill leaves me a little poorer ... or would, if I were not a beggar to begin with . He blew on the wet ink, slid the parchment to the paymaster, and signed the one beneath . “This wounds me deeply, I will have you know,” he told them .
“I am dancing as fast as I can.” He wanted to laugh, but that would have ruined the game. Let him go on thinking that he’s bent me over and fucked me up the arse, and I’ll go on buying steel swords with parchment dragons . If ever he went back to Westeros to claim his birthright, he would have all the gold of Casterly Rock to make good on his promises .
“Perhaps I could supervise your camp followers. We can’t have the men stopped up, now can we?” Tyrion said . “Most o’ them are poxy, and they talk. You’re not the first escaped slave to join the company, but that don’t mean we need to shout your presence. Stay inside as much as you can, and shit into your bucket .
The second Sons are amongst the oldest of the free companies . You will find famous names in here, some from your Seven Kingdoms . The Bright Prince, Aerion Targaryen, was a Second Son. And Rodrik Stark, the Wandering Wolf, him as well .
Inkpots slipped his dagger from its sheath and handed it across hiltfirst . It still hurts, Halfmaester, thank you very much, thought Tyrion, as he pricked the ball of his thumb . The dwarf rocked back on the camp stool and dusted the page with a bit of fine sand .
Inkpots held the tent flap to let him waddle through . "You need to beat her harder and fuck her more often," the paymaster offered helpfully . It was better than her usual sullen silence.
Tyrion knelt beside her pallet. “You look pale.” He felt her brow . He dared not ask that question aloud . They might even return us to Yezzan’s heirs, notes or no notes .
Tyrion seized her by the wrist, pulled her to her feet, and threw a fistful of clothing into her face . Snatch was waiting by the cook tent chewing sourleaf when the two dwarfs turned up, cloaked and hooded . “I hear the two o’ you are going to fight for us,” Tyrion said .
“Nine.” Snatch snorted and spat out a mouthful of red slime . The serjeant’s fingers were stained a mottled red from the juice of the sourleaf he chewed . “Take Lord and Lady Imp to the wagons, have Hammer fix them up with some company steel.” “Hammer might be passed-out drunk,” Kem cautioned. “Piss in his face. That’ll wake him up.” S
Lord Tywin came up with Renly’s ghost and took us in the flank . He dropped my spear and ran, but at the ships this bloody knight said, ‘Where’s your spear, boy? We got no room for cravens,’ and they buggered off and left me . “Some. I miss this boy, he was a friend of mine. And my brother, Kennet, but he died that day,” Kem said wistfully .
Tyrion sighed, remembering the gleaming racks of swords and spears and halberds in Casterly Rock . It will also buy you swords, and the Kems to wield them . Tyrion was a freakish-looking hulk with a left arm that appeared twice as thick as his right .
A big knight stepped down from the back of a wagon, clad head to heel in company steel . His left greave did not match his right, his gorget was spotted with rust, his vambraces rich and ornate, inlaid with niello flowers . When he took it off, Tyrion revealed the battered face of Jorah Mormont .
“I am fond of looking at your nose. I would rather that you kept it.” Her eyes got big . “Why should we need armor? We’re only mummers. We just pretend to fight.” “You pretend very well,” said Tyrion .
Tyrion found a dirk he liked, a nasty piece of steel with a triangular blade . The blade had a bit of rust on it, but that would only make it nastier . He took the sword back from her and inspected it more closely . "I don’t want to hack off heads."
Tyrion slapped Penny . It was a soft blow, all in all, with hardly any force behind it . "If you want to dream, go back to sleep," Tyrion told her .
Yezzan’s slaves ate better than many peasants back in the Seven Kingdoms . Slaves were chattels, aye. They could be bought and sold, whipped and branded, used for the carnal pleasure of their owners . Proud men might shout that they would sooner die free than live as slaves, but pride was cheap . The choice may be between bondage and death, but the choice is always there .
The Yunkai’i have lost this war, though it may take them some time to know it . Meereen has an army of Unsullied infantry, the finest in the world . And Meeree has dragons. Three of them, once the queen returns. She must. The Second Sons are on the losing side. They need to turn their cloaks again and do it now.
The Yunkai’i played us a mummer’s farce, with noble Hizdahr as chief mummer . The issue was never Yurkhaz zo Yunzak. The other slavers would gladly have trampled that old fool themselves .
"Your way is dishonorable," the Shavepate said . "The hour of the wolf. The blackest part of night, when all the world’s asleep." "That will not happen." His queen was the Mother of Dragons; he would not allow her children to harm .
“I agree,” the Shavepate grumbled, “but that was before Groleo. The head. The slavers have no honor.” “We do,” Ser Barristan said . “His Grace keeps two men by him when he sleeps, one on the door of his bedchamber, a second within, in an adjoining alcove.”
Selmy did not fear Khrazz, much less Steelskin . They were only pit fighters . The battle was never truly done for a knight of the Kingsguard . No trumpets announced the foe .
Hero, Jhogo, and Daario came out of the Red Waste together . She loves Daario. He is vain and rash, but is dear to Her Grace . He must be rescued, before his Stormcrows decide to take matters into their own hands .
Daario Targaryen loved her captain, but that was the girl in her, not the queen . Bittersteel and Bloodraven both loved Shiera Seastar, and the Seven Kingdoms bled . The Prince of Dragonflies loved Jenny of Oldstones so much he cast aside a crown .
“Grazdar and Qezza are the blood of the Green Grace. Mezzara is of Merreq, Kezmya is Pahl, Azzak Ghazeen. Bhakaz is Loraq, Hizdahr’s own kin. All are sons and daughters of the pyramids.” “Innocent girls and sweet-faced boys.” Ser Barristan had come to know them all during time they served the queen, Grazhar with his dreams of glory.
Ser Barristan Selmy had been badly wounded on the Trident . If I had seen him smile over the red ruins of Rhaegar’s children, no army on this earth could have stopped me from killing him . The Shavepate took an axe down off the wall, checked it, and grunted .
If King Hizdahr was innocent, what they did this day would be treason . But how could he be innocent? Selmy had heard him urging Daenerys to taste the poisoned locusts, shouting at his men to slay the dragon . He will kill the dragons and open the gates to the queen’s enemies . The rest of that long day raced past as swiftly as a snail .
Tumco Lho. Black as maester’s ink he was, but fast and strong, the best natural swordsman Selmy had seen since Jaime Lannister . Larraq had years of work ahead of him before he mastered proper knightly weapons, sword and lance and mace . The old knight had warned him that the whip would be useless against an armored foe ... until he saw how he used it, snapping it around the legs of his opponents to
Ser Barristan pondered raising Tumco and Larraq to knighthood . It would do his lads no good at all if it was known that they were given spurs by a traitor . "Without honor, a knight is no more than a common killer," he said .
Old Lord Whent had announced the tourney shortly after a visit from his brother, Ser Oswell Whent of the Kingsguard . With Varys whispering in his ear, King Aerys became convinced that his son was conspiring to depose him . Whent’s tourney was but a ploy to give Rhaegar a pretext for meeting with as many great lords as could be brought together .
Ser Barristan Selmy was a knight of the Kingsguard, sworn to celibacy . No good could have come from telling her his feelings . The sky was overcast, the air hot, muggy, oppressive, yet there was something in it that made his spine tingle .
Selmy lingered in the bath until it had grown cold and scrubbed his skin till it was raw . Over that he donned the armor that the queen had given him as a token of her esteem . The mail was gilded, finely wrought, the links as supple as good leather, the plate enameled, hard as ice and bright as new-fallen snow .
The Meereenese pyramid boasted three-and-thirty levels, that number being somehow sacred to the gods of Ghis . Ser Barristan began the long descent alone, his white cloak rippling behind him as he started down . He took the servants’ steps, not the grand stairways of veined marble, but the narrower, steeper, straighter stairs hidden within the thick brick walls.
Ser Barristan and his escort stepped through into a narrow, torchlit servants’ corridor of red and black brick . Outside the carved hardwood doors to the king’s chambers stood Steel-skin, a younger pit fighter not yet regarded as of the first rank . Similar markings covered his chest and arms, though whether they would actually stop a sword or axe remained to be seen .
A pair of sandalwood lovers guarded the archway leading to the royal bedchamber . Ser Barristan found them distasteful, though no doubt they were meant to be arousing . The sooner we are gone from this place, the better .
Hizdahr crossed to the sideboard to pour himself a cup of wine, but only a trickle remained in the bottom of the flagon . “Your Sleepiness’ would be more apt.” “Take Draqaz with you. One flagon of Arbor gold, and one of that sweet red. None of our yellow piss, thank you.” “Dreams can lie, Your Grace.” “I dreamed you found Daenerys.” “The city is tranquil.” “
Ser Barristan nodded at the girl peering timidly from the bed-chamber . He believes her dead. “Only you can answer that, Magnificence. It might be that you wished to put another woman in her place.” Hizdahr retreated another step .
Ser Barristan pulled his sword from the scabbard . Its sharp edge caught the light from the brazier . “Khrazz!” he shrieked, stumbling backwards toward his bedchamber .
A murderous blade against half-naked foes, in the pit or on the battlefield . But here at close quarters, the arakh’s length would tell against it . Barristan Selmy was clad in plate and mail . Khrazz was two stone heavier and forty years younger .
Khrazz cursed and turned a high cut into a low one, slipping past the old knight’s blade for once, only to have his blow scrape uselessly off a white steel greave . Selmy’s answering slash found the pit fighter’s shoulder, parting the fine linen to bite the flesh beneath . It was blood the crowds came for: death, dismemberment, and shrieks of agony .
Ser Barristan slashed open the pit fighter’s belly, parried the arakh as it wrenched free, then finished Khrazz with a quick thrust to the heart as the entrails came sliding out like a nest of greasy eels . Blood and viscera stained the king’s silk carpets . Selmy took a step back. The longsword in his hand was red for half its length .
Miklaz and Draqaz had returned with Hizdahr’s wine . They stood in the open door, cradling flagons against their chests and staring wide-eyed at the corpse of Khrazz . The boy addressed the king as if Ser Barristan were not there .
“Quentyn, are you mad?” No, just scared. “Gerris?” “I heard you moving about.” “I could not sleep.” “Are burns a cure for that? Some warm milk and a lullaby might serve you well. Or better still, I could take you to the Temple of the Graces and find a girl for you.” “They call them Graces. They come in different colors. The red ones are the only ones who fuck.” “The septas
Quentyn had never felt so much a boy as when he stood before Daenerys Targaryen, pleading for her hand . The thought of bedding her terrified him almost as much as her dragons had . It was the only rash thing his father had ever done, to hear some tell it .
The hero never dies, though. I must be the hero . The prince rose, blew the candle out, and crept back to his bed and its sweat-soaked linen sheets . I should have kissed one of the Drinkwater twins, or maybe both of them .
Dornishmen broke their fast in the predawn chill, slashing down in a hard, cold torrent that would soon turn the brick streets of Meereen into rivers . When Gerris made to pour himself a cup of wine, Quentyn stopped him . “My bones were aching last night. They always ache before it rains.” “Some are. That old King Aegon, the randy one, he built wooden dragons to conquer us. That ended bad
The Tattered Prince had warned them when he handed over the bundle . "They may ask for a word," the prince had warned him . The prince did not mistake his meaning. "That would be the one." "We chanced upon some Brazen Beasts and Meris asked them prettily." "I’ll be the bull," Arch said .
The doors were closed and barred each day at sunset and remained closed until first light . The walls around them were made of bricks of half a hundred colors, but the shadows turned them all to grey until touched by the light of the torch that Gerris carried . They encountered no one on the long descent .
Pretty Meris and the Tattered Prince had gotten the word wrong . Quentyn called, and the big man appeared, the torchlight shining off his bull’s mask . The butcher’s wagon was waiting in the alley .
Quentyn’s readings had suggested that the same thing had occurred in the Seven Kingdoms . None of the dragons bred and raised in the Dragonpit of King’s Landing had ever approached the size of Vhagar or Meraxes, much less that of the Black Dread, King Aegon’s monster .
Quentyn Martell realized that something had gone awry . He flung the torch at the nearest locust, reached back, and unslung his warhammer . The serjeant staggered sideways half a step before his knees folded under him .
Gerris cursed as the locusts closed around him . Quentyn drove the point of his sword under the brass mask and up through the wearer’s throat . The last locusten dropped his spear, the Valyrian steel shearing through flesh and bone and gristle .
Prince Quentyn felt as though he might be sick . He whispered, “Fire and blood,” “blood and fire.” The blood was pooling at his feet, soaking into the brick floor . “The chains ... we have no key ...” Arch said, “I have the key.” He swung his warhammer hard and fast .
Quentyn edged forward slowly, moving the torch from side to side . Walls and floor and ceiling drank the light. Scorched, he realized . Bronze, they were brighter than polished shields, burning behind a veil of smoke rising from the dragon’s nostrils .
Arch wrestled one of the sheep off the wagon by two legs, then spun and flung it into the pit . Rhaegal took it in the air, and from between his jaws a lance of flame erupted . A nimbus of flames still flickered about the body .
Quentyn could see what looked like a huge white serpent uncoiling inside the wall, up where it curved to become the ceiling . More ash went drifting downward, and a bit of crumbling brick fell away . The dragon resolved itself into a neck and tail, and then the dragon’s long horned head appeared, his eyes glowing in the dark like golden coals .
The dragon came down between the Dornishmen and the door with a roar that would have sent a hundred lions running . His head moved side to side as he inspected the intruders . Quentyn heard the rattle of chains, the deep thrum of a crossbow .
The fool was all that he had time to think as the quarrel caromed off Viserion’s neck to vanish in the gloom . A line of fire gleamed in its wake—dragon’s blood, glowing gold and red . The man wore the mask of a Brazen Beast . He dropped his weapon to try and pry apart his jaws, flame gouted from the tiger’s mouth .
Queen Selyse screamed: JON Let them die . The queen pulled her daughter closer to her and kissed her cheek . Princess Shireen stood beside her mother’s seat .
Ser Malegorn, Ser Benethon, Ser Narbert, Ser Patrek, Ser Dorden, Ser Brus . Queen Selyse kept her sworn shields about her night and day . The Night’s Watch will attend to this matter .
Gerrick Kingsblood was a tall man, long of leg and broad of shoulder . The queen dressed him in some of the king’s old clothes, it appeared . Gerrick is descended from a younger brother of Raymun Redbeard .
"May you find happiness with your betrothed." "Under the sea, men marry fishes." Patchface did a little dance step, jingling his bells . "I have decided that she shall wed my good and leal knight, Ser Patrek of King’s Mountain."
“Must we?” I think not. “My lady, I have duties.” “It is those duties I would speak of.” “Asleep in my chambers. Her Grace does not allow Ghost in her presence. She claims he scares the princess. And so long as Borroq and his boar are about, I dare not let him loose.” “Selyse has the right of this, Lord Snow. Let them die. You cannot save them.” “Your ships are lost.
"Toregg has returned," he said when Jon emerged . "The little monster, like as not. He’s taken a liking to one o’ them milkmaids, I hear"
Tormund had thought to make himself the King-Beyond-the-Wall before Mance had bested him . He glanced up past the King’s Tower. The Wall was a dull white, the sky above it whiter. A snow sky. “Just pray we do not get another storm.” Mully and the Flea stood shivering at guard .
The fastest way to Hardhome was along the coast ... from Eastwatch . The woods were thinner near the sea, the terrain mostly flatlands, rolling hills, and salt marshes . Leathers says that some will help. "Use the free folk," Jon said .
When Jon settled Stonedoor on Soren Shieldbreaker, Yarwyck complained that it was too isolated . When he conferred Oakenshield on Tormund Giantsbane and Queensgate on Morna White Mask, Marsh pointed out that Castle Black would now have foes on either side who could easily cut them off from the rest of the Wall .
Bowen Marsh rubbed at the scar he had won at the Bridge of Skulls . “Send them all. The more we lose, the fewer mouths we’ll have to feed.” Yarwyck was no more helpful . The Night’s Watch needed leaders with the wisdom of Maester Aemon .
Ten stewards and one giant made short work of the drifts, but even when the doors were clear again, Jon was not satisfied . Cregan Karstark had taken to howling in the night of late, throwing frozen feces at whoever came to feed him . The Old Bear’s former seat would be warmer than the ice cells .
Tormund Giantsbane arrived red-faced, shouting for a horn of ale and something hot to eat . He had ice in his beard and more crusting his mustache . "He has a little red cock to go with all that red hair, that’s what he has," Jon said .
“I want us to be of one mind at the Shieldhall, we must—” Jon said . “As you say, m’lord, only ... Clydas don’t look his proper self ... and he’s shaking.” “We say, Bleed a cold but feast a fever too,” Mully added .
You told the world you burned the King-Beyond-the-Wall . Instead you sent him to Winterfell to steal my bride from me . I have him in a cage for all the north to see, proof of your lies .
Jon Snow said: "Might be all a skin o’ lies." He knows about the spearwives and their number . He thought of Robb, with snowflakes melting in his hair . I wanted my bride back ... I want my bride ... We had best change the plan"
Horse and Rory replaced Fulk and Mully at the armory door with the change of watch . He grabbed him by the scruff of his neck and wrestled him back inside . The Shieldhall was one of the older parts of Castle Black, its oaken rafters black with the smoke of centuries .
In the last hundred years, the Shieldhall had been used only infrequently . It was dark, dirty, drafty, and hard to heat in winter, its cellars infested with rats, its massive wooden rafters worm-eaten and festooned with cobwebs . But the sound went through the hall, like wasps stirring in a nest .
Jon Snow summoned you to make plans for the relief of Hardhome . To his left he saw Marsh and Yarwyck surrounded by his builders . Soren Shieldbreaker sat with his arms crossed against his chest .
The Giantsbane sounded his horn once more, twice as long and twice as loud as the first time . "The Night’s Watch takes no part in the wars of the Seven Kingdoms," Jon reminded them when some semblance of quiet had returned .
No man can ever say I made my brothers break their vows . If this is oathbreaking, the crime is mine and mine alone . Then Tormund was pounding him on the back, all gap-toothed grin from ear to ear . “We’ll make a wildling o’ you yet, boy. Har!” “I will send for ale,” Jon said, distracted .
The giant was dangling a bloody corpse by one leg, the same way Arya used to dangle her doll when she was small, swinging it like a morningstar when menaced by vegetables . The dead man’s sword arm was yards away, the snow beneath it turning red . He swung the dead knight against the grey stone of the tower .
Wun Weg Wun Dar Wun howled again and gave Ser Patrek’s other arm a twist and pull . It tore loose from his shoulder with a spray of bright red blood . Bowen Marsh stood there before him, tears running down his cheeks .
The Dornish prince was three days dying . He took his last shuddering breath in the bleak black dawn . The rain had drowned the worst of the fires, but wisps of smoke rose from a dark sky .
Quentyn Martell had been a knight, and a prince of Dorne besides . It seemed only kind to let him die in the bed he had crossed half a world to reach . The bedding was ruined—sheets, covers, pillows, mattress, all reeked of blood and smoke .
So much of the prince’s flesh had sloughed away that he could see the skull beneath . He should have stayed a frog. Not all men are meant to dance with dragons .
if I did not see her fall, hundreds swear they did . Day had crept upon the city. Though the rain still fell, a vague light suffused the eastern sky .
The Harpy wants Hizdahr free, so he has sent his sons back into the streets with knives in hand . The dead are all freed-men and shavepates, as before .
Ser Barristan would not presume to hold court in the queen’s absence, nor would he permit Skahaz mo Kandaq to do so . Hizdahr’s grotesque dragon thrones had been removed at Ser Barristeran’s command . He had not brought back the simple pillowed bench the queen had favored .
The Stormcrows were represented by two seasoned sellswords, an archer named Jokin and the scarred and sour axeman known simply as the Widower . Most of the queen’s khalasar had gone with Aggo and Rakharo to search for her on the Dothraki sea .
The eunuch looked death in the face, so near he might have kissed her on the lips . It had marked him. He looked to have lost two stone of weight, and the dark brown skin that had once stretched tight across a massive chest and belly, crossed by a hundred faded scars, now hung on him in loose folds . He had once crossed the world with Strong Belwas, and knew he could rely on him .
“Let them share a gibbet,” said Symon Stripeback . “I will kill them both as all Meereen shouts out my name.” “The fighting pits will remain closed,” said Selmy .
“The Wise Masters do not need our gold, ser,” said Grey Worm . “They are richer than your Westerosi lords, every one.” “Their sellswords will want the gold, though. What are the hostages to them?
“Your gods are far away, Ser Grandfather,” said the Widower . “I do not think they hear your prayers. And when the Yunkai’i send back the old woman to spit in your eye, what then?” “Fire and blood,” said Barristan Selmy .
Weak points and strong points, how to best employ their small company of archers, whether their horse cavalry was best deployed on the flanks or in the vanguard . Tal Toraq thought that they should march on Yunkai once they had broken through the lines . The Spotted Cat proposed to challenge the enemy to send forth a champion to face him in single combat .
Ser Barristan took two of his new-made knights down into the dungeons . Grey Worm inclined his head after the others had left . He said that when we attack, the Yunkai’i will kill the hostages .
Ser Barristan did not like this Gerris Drinkwater, nor would he allow him to vilify Daenerys . He had spent the best part of his own life obeying the commands of drunkards and madmen . "He came too late, and this folly ... buying sellswords, loosing two dragons on the city ... that was madness and worse than madness. That was treason."
Doran Mar-tell is not a man to call his spears without hope of victory . Duty brought Prince Quentyn here. Duty, honor, thirst for glory ... never love . Skahaz Shavepate wants you hanged. You slew four of his men . Two freedmen who had followed Her Grace since Astapor .
Quent, Seven save him, looked like he was going to shit his smallclothes . Maybe they meant to kill the dragons all along and were only using us to get to them .
“He’s not wrong,” Ser Barristan said . “He promised him Pentos. Say it. No words of yours can help or harm Prince Quentyn now.” There is a chance here. “We still have Windblown in the dungeons.Those feigned deserters.” “I remember,” said Yronwood .
Ser Archibald had a pretty face, a glib tongue, and a fine head of hair . The Dornishmen were knights, though only Yronwood impressed him as having the true steel . By the time the old knight returned to the queen’s rooms atop the pyramid, Prince Quentyn’s corpse had been removed .
Ser Barristan saw pale wings moving above a distant line of hills . Thus far the green dragon had shown himself to be more dangerous than the white . When Bhakaz brought his wine, the old knight took one long swallow and sent the boy for water .
The Pink Graces arrayed themselves behind her, with eyes lowered and hands clasped before them . “May I offer you refreshment?” asked Ser Barristan . He beckoned to Kezmya and had her fetch the priestess a goblet of lemon juice .
Hundreds are taking ship, sailing for Yunkai, for Tolos, for Qarth . The pyramid of Hazkar has collapsed into a smoking ruin, and many of that ancient line lie dead beneath its blackened stones . "My people have lost all hope and turned against the gods themselves, giving over their nights to drunkenness and fornication," says Grace .
Ser Barristan felt oddly relieved by War he understood . The old woman’s voice was full of grief, of fear . Yunkai fears them and with good cause, you cannot deny .
It took Dany half the morning to climb down . By the time she reached the bottom she was winded . Her skin was pink and tender, and a pale milky fluid was leaking from her cracked palms, but her burns were healing . The hill loomed larger down here .
The dragonlords of Valyria had controlled their mounts with binding spells and sorcerous horns . When she whipped her silver mare on her right flank the mare went left, for a horse’s first instinct is to flee from danger . The whip annoyed him more than it hurt him, she had come to see; his scales had grown harder than horn .
Dany had torn a strip off the hem to make a bandage for her shin . She had been a lonely sojourn, and for most of it she had been hurt and hungry . It would be good to feel clean again .
Dany set off through the tall grass at a brisk pace . It never seemed so high when I was mounted on my silver . As she walked, she tapped her thigh with the pitmaster’s whip .
Daenerys Targaryen had seen it first when she was still a girl, newly wed to Khal Drogo and on her way to Vaes Dothrak to be presented to the crones of the dosh khaleen . Her sun-and-stars had fallen from his horse, the maegi Mirri Maz Duur had murdered Rhaego in her womb . Ko Pono named himself Khal Jhaqo and rode off with even more .
Dany saw one of the bolts burst into sudden flame, shaken loose by the beating of his wings . A woman in a green tokar reached for a weeping child, pulling him down into her arms to shield him from the flames .
Dany glimpsed the shores of Slaver’s Bay and the old Valyrian road that ran beside it through sand and desolation until it vanished in the west . The sun grew hotter as it rose, and before long her head was pounding . She had tried to make one for herself, weaving stalks of grass together as she had seen Dothraki women do during her time with Drogo .
Daario and Hero, Jhogo and Groleo, and three of Hizdahr’s kin . Only Daario had been given to the Yunkai’i, a hostage to ensure no harm came to them . She wondered how much her captain’s blades still hung upon the wall beside her bed .
Dany turned her back upon the distant hill and closed her ears to the song of flight and freedom that the wind sang as it played amongst the hill’s stony ridges . Take me to the river, and I will do the rest. The hours passed slowly. The stream bent this way and that, and Dany followed, beating time upon her leg with the whip, trying not to think about how far she had to go .
Mud squished between her toes, whispering in a tongue that only gods could understand . Once she came upon a rat drinking from the stream, but it fled when she appeared, scurrying between the stalks to vanish in the high grass . Sometimes she heard birds singing. The sound made her belly rumble, but she had no nets to snare them with, and so far she had not come on any nests .
Dany found eight before the sun went down, but there might have been more farther out, hidden in the grass . The stone wall had endured better than the rest . Dany wedged herself into that corner, making a nest of sorts .
Dany had made Hizdahr her king, took him into her bed, opened the fighting pits for him, he had no reason to want her dead . The sound made her feel sad and lonely, but no less hungry . She was flying again, spinning, laughing, dancing, as the stars wheel around her and whispered secrets in her ear.
Dany brushed the ants from her arms and legs and belly . She knocked them off and crushed them under her bare feet . To them these tumbledown stones must loom as huge as the Wall of Westeros .
Dany cupped her hands to drink. The water made her belly cramp, but cramps were easier to bear than thirst . She had no other drink but the morning dew that glistened on the tall grass, and no food at all unless she cared to eat the grass.
In Westeros the dead of House Targaryen were given to the flames, but who would light her pyre here? She could see smoke rising from its wind-carved summit, miles away . By the time the moon came up she was shitting brown water, but the more she shat, the thirstier she grew, and her thirst sent her crawling to the stream to suck up more water.
I taught you who you were. I fed you. I sold your mother’s crown to keep you fed . You turned against me, against your own blood. They cheated me. Your horsey husband and his stinking savages. They promised me a golden crown and gave me this . I waited long enough. I was their king, their rightful king. They laughed at me .
Viserys began to laugh, until his jaw fell away from his face, smoking, and blood and molten gold ran from his mouth . When she woke, gasping, her thighs were slick with blood . The world had just begun to lighten, and the tall grass rustled softly in the wind .
Dany was so sad that she would have cried if all her tears had not been burned away . She scooped up a handful of mud and water in trembling hands . By midday the water would be tepid, but in the chill of dawn it was almost cool .
Meereen was not her home, and never would be. It was a city of strange men with strange gods and stranger hair, of slavers wrapped in fringed tokars . You were warned, Your Grace. Let this city be, I said. Your war is in Westeros, I told you. The voice was no more than a whisper .
Dany could still see the trail of corpses she had left behind crossing the Red Waste . You are the blood of the dragon. The whispering was growing fainter, as if Ser Jorah were falling farther behind.
Bells, Dany thought, smiling, remembering Khal Drogo, her sunand-stars, and the bells he braided into his hair . He wore a medallion belt and painted vest, with an arakh on one hip and a whip on the other . If he found her there, he would kill her, rape her, or enslave her .
Dany followed his eyes, and there the shadow flew, with wings spread wide . He woke as if from a dream, wheeled his mount about, and raced off through the tall grass at a gallop . When the sound of his hooves had faded away to silence, she began to shout . Drogon came, snorting plumes of smoke .
Dany rose, wiped her hands on her ragged undertunic, and went to stand beside her dragon . The dragon descended on him, roaring, and all at once the beast was aflame . Dany clutched the dragon’s neck with all her strength to keep from sliding off . He consumed his kill there, tearing at the charred flesh .
Ser Kevan Lannister pulled his cloak about himself more closely . The light of the torches made a fiery blaze of Ronnet Connington’s red hair and beard .
Ser Kevan agreed to grant him the office he coveted . "You will bide here until we are ready to march. Then you shall have the chance to prove your loyalty," he said . The Knight of Griffin’s Roost remained suspect .
Randyll Tarly and Mace Tyrell had both brought armies to King’s Landing . The best part of the strength of House Lannister remained in the riverlands . “They are still no more than adventurers,” Ser Kevan said .
Lord Mace Tyrell grunted the words. “If it is Jon Connington,” said Randyll Tarly. “Stannis holds it now. Let the castle pass from one pretender to another, why should that trouble us? I shall recapture it after my daughter’s innocence is proved.” Have King Tommen declare my daughter innocent, ser, and put an end to the foolishness here and now.” Do that, and the whispers will follow Margaery the rest of her life.
Jon Connington could have ended Robert’s Rebellion at Stoney Sept. He failed. Just as the Golden Company has always failed. Some may rush to join them, aye. The realm is well rid of such fools.” Ser Kevan wished that he could share his certainty.
"A feigned boy is what he has," said Randyll Tarly . "We have these tales coming from the east as well. A second Targaryen, and one whose blood no man can question. Daenerys Stormborn." "As mad as her father," said Lord Mace Tyrell .
"Sellswords fight for coin," said Grand Maester Pycelle . "Alas, my lords, our vaults contain only rats and roaches," Ser Harys Swyft said . The Iron Bank would have no choice but to pay the crown’s debts .
Kevan Lannister had seen Dragonstone with his own eyes . He doubted very much that Loras Tyrell had searched every inch of Dragonstone . The Valyrians had raised it, after all, and all their works stank of sorcery .
Ser Kevan promises his niece will make no further mischief . If her niece is proved guilty of these treasons, the legitimacy of her children will be called into question . Margaery will cease to be a queen .
Ser Kevan Lannister consulted Grand Maester Pycelle's papers . “We should address the Rosby inheritance. What else?” “Preparations should be made for Princess Myrcella.” “This is what comes of dealing with the Dornish,” Mace Tyrell said with an irritating titter .
Randyll Tarly left the hall with his liege lord, their green-cloaked spear-men right behind them . "Lord Tyrell loves me not," Grand Maester Pycelle said in gloomy tones when the Hand had departed . Mace Tyrell had his own candidate: his uncle, Lord Seneschal of Highgarden .
Ser Kevan had not yet seen fit to inform Mace Tyrell of her coming . Petyr Baelish had a gift for conjuring dragons from the air . "Hire the Mountain’s men," Ser Kev said .
Ser Kevan yanked his gloves on and set off across the yard, leaning hard into the wind as his cloak snapped and swirled behind him . The dry moat surrounding Maegor’s Holdfast was three feet deep in snow, the iron spikes that lined it glistening with frost . There is more honor in that than he will ever find in the Warrior’s Sons .
Ser Kevan remembered the girl she once had been, so full of life and mischief . She had been bathing four or five times a day, scrubbing herself with horsehair brushes and strong lye soap, as if she meant to scrape her skin off . It did no good to brood on lost battles and roads not taken .
In their father’s final years, their sire had taken the comely daughter of a candlemaker as mistress . It was not unknown for a widowed lord to keep a common girl as bedwarmer . Within a year Tytos was dismissing servants, ordering about his household knights, even asking her views on matters of state . She grew so influential that it was said about his family knights .
Ser Boros Blount was in attendance on the boy king and his mother when Ser Kevan entered the royal chambers . He wore enameled scale, white cloak, and halfhelm . Of late Boros had grown notably heavier about the face and belly, and his color was not good .
Ser Kevan said Lord Tyrell intends to rebuild the Tower of the Hand . It is good that she still remembers how to laugh . The queen said, “I am well served. The girls are sweet, and the good septas make certain that I say my prayers.” It was a modest request .
“The bad cat?” Ser Kevan said, amused. He is a sweet boy. “An old black black tomcat with a torn ear,” Cersei told him . “I will ask the ratters to set a trap for him.” Ser Kean could not remember ever seeing his niece so quiet, so subdued, so demure. But it made him sad as well.
Ser Boros escorted Tommen and his kittens to the royal bedchamber . Ser Kevan rose. “Pray excuse me.” Before taking his leave, he dropped to one knee and kissed his niece upon the hand . If her silent giant failed her, it might be the last kiss she would ever know .
Pycelle’s chambers were beneath the rookery, a spacious suite of rooms cluttered with racks of herbs and salves and potions . Black ash and dying embers were all that remained of the hearthfire .
It was the largest raven that Kevan Lannister had ever seen . Larger than any hunting hawk at Casterly Rock, larger than the largest owl . Blowing snow danced around it, and the moon painted it silver. Not silver. The bird is white. The white ravens of the Citadel did not carry messages .
Ser Kevan shivered violently. “Are you cold, my lord?” asked Varys. “Do forgive me. The Grand Maester befouled himself in dying, and the stink was so abominable that I thought I might choke.” Ser Kev said .
Aegon has been shaped for rule since before he could walk . A septa has instructed him in the mysteries of the Faith since he was old enough to understand them . He has lived with fisherfolk, worked with his hands, swum in rivers and mended nets .
Ser Kevan was cold as ice, and every labored breath sent a fresh stab of pain through him . He glimpsed movement, heard the soft scuffling sound of slippered feet on stone . A child emerged from a pool of darkness, a pale boy in a ragged robe, no more than nine or ten .
PRINCESS MYRCELLA BARATHEON, a girl of nine, betrothed to his son Trystane, —his kittens, SER POUNCE, LADY WHISKERS, BOOTS . SER JAIME LANNISTER, called THE KINGSLAYER, accused and condemned for regicide and kinslaying .
—SER KEVAN LANNISTER, Lord Commander of the Kingsguard, —LORD PAXTER REDWYNE, grand admiral and master of ships, fled to Longtable upon Queen Cersei’s arrest .
SER MERYN TRANT, Lord Commander, removed and restored, —SER BOROS BLOUNT, in Dorne with Princess Myrcella . SER OSMUND KETTLEBLACK, brother to Ser Osmund and ser Osney, a captain in the City Watch .
JALABHAR XHO, Prince of the Red Flower Vale, exile from the Summer Isles, —SER HORAS REDWYNE, found innocent and freed . SER OSNEY KETTLEBLACK, brother to Ser Osmund, held captive by the Faith . the people of the Faith: —THE HIGH SEPTON, Father of The Faithful, Voice of the Seven on Earth, an old man and frail .
SER RUFUS LEEK, a one-legged knight in his service, died of a broken hip, — her eldest daughter, FALYSE, died screaming in the black cells . SER BALMAN BYRCH, Lady Falyse’s husband, killed in a joust . her newborn son, TYRION TANNER, of the hundred fathers .
SER CLAYTON SUGGS, SER CORLISS PENNY, queen’s men and fervent followers of the Lord of Light . SER WILLAM FOXGLOVE SER HUMFREY CLIFTON SER ORMUND WYLDE SER HARYS COBB, knights, his captive, MANCE RAYDER, King-Beyond-the-Wall, —Rayder’s infant son, “the wildling prince” .
KING OF THE ISLES AND THE NORTH The Greyjoys of Pyke claim descent from the Grey King of the Age of Heroes . Legend says Grey King ruled the sea itself and took a mermaid to wife . Their words are We Do Not Sow .
AERON, his youngest brother, called DAMPHAIR, a priest of the Drowned God, . His captains and sworn swords: —TORWOLD BROWNTOOTH, PINCHFACE JON MYRE, RODRIK FREEBORN, THE RED OARSMAN, LEFT-HAND LUCAS CODD, QUELLON HUMBLE, HARREN HALF-HOARE .
LORD DONNOR SALTCLIFFE, —LORD SUNDERLY —lords of Harlaw: —RODRIK HARLAW, called THE READER . Lord of Saltcliffe, Lord of Ten Towers, Harlaw, –SIGFRYD HARlaW, named SIGFRYD SILVERHAIR, his great uncle .
ASHA GREYJOY, the kraken’s daughter, captain of the Black Wind, dispossessed of his lands, —her crewmen, ROGGON RUSTBEARD, GRIMTONGUE, ROLFE THE DWARF, LORREN LONGAXE, ROOK, FINGERS, SIX-TOED HARL, DROOPEYE DALE, CROMM, HAGEN THE HORN and his beautiful red-haired daughter, 
SER BYRON THE BEAUTIFUL, SER MORGARTH THE MERRY, hedge knights in Lord Petyr’s service, —his household and retainers: —MAESTER COLEMON, counselor, healer, and tutor —MORD, a brutal gaoler with teeth of gold . —GRETCHEL, MADDY, and MELA .
SER MORTON, Lord Eon’s eldest son and heir, —SER DONNEL, the Knight of the Bloody Gate, a squire oft called HARRY THE HEIR . SER SYMOND TEMPLETON, her ward, is now called YOUNG LORD HUNTER .
HOUSE BARATHEON The youngest of the Great Houses was born during the Wars of Conquest . Orys Baratheon defeated and slew Argilac the Arrogant, the last Storm King . In the 283rd year after Aegon’s Conquest, Robert overthrew the Mad King, Aenys II Targaryen to win the Iron Throne .
SER ANDREW ESTERMONT, his cousin and guardian, —his guards and protectors: SER GERALD GOWER, LEWYS called THE FISH-WIFE, SER TRISTON OF TALLY HILL, OMER BLACKBERRY —BARRA, his bastard daughter by a whore of King’s Landing, killed by the command of his widow .
SER GILBERT FARRING, castellan of Storm’s End, squire to King Stannis, —his son, BRYEN . SER BARRISTAN SELMY, CASPER WYLDE, Lord of the Rain House, called GIANTSLAYER .
The Freys are bannermen to House Tully, but have not always been diligent in their duty . At the outset of the War of the Five Kings, Robb Stark won Lord Walder’s allegiance by pledging to marry one of his daughters or granddaughters . When he wed Lady Jeyne Westerling instead, they conspired with Roose Bolton and murdered Young Wolf .
WALDER FREY, Lord of the Crossing, — by his first wife, LADY PERRA, of House Royce, died after the Battle of Oxcross, . —SER EMMON FreY, his tenth son, led the Frey forces in the north . AEGON BLOODBORN’s son, RHAEGAR, an envoy to White Harbor .
—SER RAYMUND FREY, his eleventh son, — by his fourth wife, LADY ALYSSA, of House Blackwood . WALDER, eight, a squire in service to Ramsey Bolton . Ser Flement Brax —TYTA, his fourth daughter, called TYTA THE MAID .
TYWIN LANNISTER, Lord of Casterly Rock, Shield of Lannis-port, Warden of the West, and Hand of the King, murdered by his dwarf son in his privy . The Lannisters are the principal support of King Tommen’s claim to the Iron Throne . Their words are Hear Me Roar!
SER ILYN PAYNE, a tongueless knight, lately the King’s Justice and headsman, sent to Maidenpool with a prisoner, —SER ADDAM MARBRAND, SER ALYN STACKSPEAR SER STEFFON SWYFT . SER JON BETTLEY called BEARDLESS JON, knights serving with Ser Jaime’s host at River-run .
SER STAFFORD LANNISTER, a cousin and brother to Lord Tywin’s wife, slain in battle at Oxcross, died of a pox, —TYREK, Tygett’s son, missing and feared dead . Lady Shiera Crake-hall, m. Lord Antario Jast, -LADY MARGOT, . SER DAMION .
HOUSE MARTELL Dorne was the last of the Seven Kingdoms to swear fealty to the Iron Throne . Blood, custom, geography, and history helped to set the Dornishmen apart from the other kingdoms . Myrcella Baratheon was betrothed to Prince Trystane .
PRINCESS ARIANNE, heir to Sunspear, —PRINCE TRYSTANE, betrothed to Myrcella Baratheon . Her son, AEGON TARGARYEN, a babe at the breast, murdered during the Sack of King’s Landing .
—MAESTER MYLES, counselor, healer, and tutor, —RICASSO, seneschal, old and blind . —SER MANFREY MARTELL, castellan at Sunspear: —LADY ALYSE LADYBRIGHT, lord treasurer, PRINCESS MYRCELLA BARATHEON, betrothed to Prince Trystane .
HOUSE STARK The Starks trace their descent from Brandon the Builder and the Kings of Winter . Torrhen Stark, the King Who Knelt, chose to swear fealty to Aegon the Dragon rather than give battle . During the War of the Five Kings, Lord Eddard Stark won every battle, but was betrayed and murdered by the Freys and Boltons during his uncle’s wedding .
BENJEN STARK, First Ranger of the Night’s Watch, lost beyond the Wall, presumed dead, —his aunt, LYSA ARRYN, Lady of the Eyrie —her son, ROBERT ARRYn, Lord of the eyrie and Defender of the Vale, a sickly boy . SER BRYNDEN TULLY, called THE BLACK-FISH, lately castellan of Riverrun, now a hunted man,
JONELLE, his sister, a maid of two-and-thirty, —ROOSE BOLTON, Lord of the Dreadfort —DOMERIC, his heir, died of a bad belly . WALTON called STEELSHANKS, his natural son, called BIG WALDER and LITTLEWALDER, Ramsay’s squires . —BEN BONES, kennelmaster at the . Dread
SER WYLIS MANDERLY, his eldest son and heir, very fat, a captive at Harrenhal, —Wylis’s wife, LEONA of House Woolfield — WYNAFRYD . —SER BARTIMUS, his cousin, commander of the garrison at White Harbor —MAESTER THEOMORE, counselor, tutor, healer —WEX .
BENJICOT BRANCH, NOSELESS NED WOODS, men of the wolfswood sworn to Deepwood Motte, —SER HELMAN TALLHART, Master of Torrhen’s Square, slain at Duskendale .
Lord Edmyn Tully of Riverrun was one of the first of the river lords to swear fealty to Aegon the Conqueror . The Tully sigil is a leaping trout, silver, on a field of rippling blue and red .
LADY LYSA ARRYN, widow of Lord Jon Arryn of the Vale, pushed to her death from the Eyrie . His uncle, SER BRYNDEN TULLY, called THE BLACKFISH, lately castellan of Riverrun, now an outlaw . SER ROBIN RYGER, captain of the guard, —LONG LEW, ELWOOD, DELP .
MACE TYRELL, Lord of Highgarden, Warden of the South, Defender of the Marches, and High Marshal of the Reach . SER MARQ PIPER, whose son and heir were taken captive at the Red Wedding, was taken captive . The Tyrells rose to power as stewards to the Kings of The Reach, though they claim descent from Garth Greenhand, gardener king of the First Men.
SER GARLAN, called THE GALLANT, their second son, newly raised to Lord of Brightwater, —Garlan’s wife, LADY LEONETTE of House Fossoway, –SER LORAS, the Knight of Flowers, their youngest son, a Sworn Brother of the Kingsguard, wounded on Dragonstone —MARGAERY, their daughter, twice wed and twice widowed .
MAESTER LOMYS, counselor, healer, and tutor, —IGON VYRWEL, captain of the guard —SER VORTIMER CRANE, master-at-arms —BUTTERBUMPS, fool and jester, hugely fat —his bannermen, the Lords of the Reach: —RANDYLL TARLY, Lord of Horn Hill, commanding King Tommen’s army on the Trident . SER HORAS and SER
The Tyrell sigil is a golden rose on a grass-green field . Their words are Growing Strong . THE SWORN BROTHERS OF THE NIGHT’S WATCH JON SNOW, nine-hundred-and-ninety-eighth Lord Commander of the Night’s Watch .
SEPTON CELLADOR, a drunken devout, —BLACK JACK BULWER, First Ranger —DYWEN, KEDGE WHITEYE, BEDWYCK called GIANT, MATTHAR, GARTH GREYFEATHER, ULMER OF THE KINGSWOOD . PYPAR called BLACK BERNARR, TIM STONE, RORY, BEARDED BEN, TOM BARLEY-CORN,
THE WILDLINGS, OR THE FREE FOLK MANCE RAYDER, King-Beyond-the-Wall, a captive at Castle Black, —his wife, DALLA, died in childbirth . —VAL, Dalla’s younger sister, “the wildling princess” killed in a fall .
TOREGG THE TALL, TORWYRD THE TAME, DORMUND, and DRYN, his daughter MUNDA, —THE WEEPER, called THE WEEPING MAN, a notorious raider and leader of a war band . —HARMA, called DOGSHEAD, slain beneath the Wall .
—ORELL, called ORELL THE EAGLE, a skinchanger slain by Jon Snow in the Skirling Pass, —MAG MAR TUN DOH WEG, called WUN WUN DAR WUN . BEYOND THE WALL —BRANDON STARK, called BRAN, Prince of Winterfell and heir to the North .
ESSOS BEYOND THE NARROW SEA IN BRAAVOS FERREGO ANTARYON, sickly and failing, —QARRO VOLENTIN, First Sword of Braavos, his protector —BELLEGERE OTHERYS called THE BLACK PEARL, a courtesan descended from the pirate queen of the same name . —THE VEILED LADY, THE MERLING QUEEN, THE MOON-SHAD
ARYA of House Stark, also known as ARRY, NAN, WEASEL, SQUAB, SALTY, and CAT OF THE CANALS, called MERRY, proprietor of the Happy Port, a brothel near the Ragman’s Harbor, —THE SAILOR’S WIFE .
ON SLAVER’S BAY —in Yunkai, the Yellow City: —YURKHAZ ZO YUNZAK, a slaver and aged noble of impeccable birth . —NURSE, his slave overseer, —SWEETS . mocked as THE DRUNKEN CONQUEROR —GORZHAK ZO FAEZ .
GHAZDOR ZO AHLAQ, a nobleman and slaver, mocked as LORD WOBBLECHEEKS, —PAEZHAR ZO MYRAQ, . —CHEZDHAR Z O RHAEZN, MAEZON ZO RHEZN . GRAZDHAN ZO ROYN, noblemen and . brothers, mocking as THE CLANKER LORDS .
AEGON, a babe in arms, murdered during the Sack of King’s Landing, —her brother VISERYS, the Third of His Name, called THE BEGGAR KING, crowned with molten gold . Her stillborn son by Drogo, RHAEGO, killed in the womb by the maegi Mirri Maz Duur, . her protectors: —SER BARRISTAN SELMY, called
GREY WORM, commander of the Unsullied, a company of eunuch infantry . —HERO, an Unsulied captain, second-in-command, —STALWART SHIELD . MOLLONO YOS DOB, commander . of FREE BROTHERS, .
GRAZDAM ZO GALARE, a wealthy Meereenese nobleman, —HIZDAHR ZO LORAQ, his cousin —RYLONA RHEE, freedwoman and harpist . —GOGHOR THE GIANT, KHRAZZ, BELAQUO BONE-BREAKER, CAMARRON OF THE COUNT, FEARLESS ITHOKE .
PRINCE QUENTYN MARTELL, eldest son of Doran Martell, Lord of Sunspear and Prince of Dorne, —his sworn shields and companions . —SER ARCHIBALD YRONWOOD, cousin to Cletus, called THE BIG MAN . His foster father, GRIFF, a sellsword late of the Golden Company .
The Targaryens are the blood of the dragon, descended from the high lords of the ancient Freehold of Valyria . Their heritage marked by lilac, indigo, and violet eyes and hair of silver-gold . The founder of the dynasty, Aegon, took both his sisters to wife and fathered sons on each .
a white-haired Summer Islander, commander of the company archers, —BLACK BALAQ, a sellsword late of the Free City of Lys, company spymaster —GORYS EDORYEN . —SER FRANKLYN FLOWERS, the Bastard of Cider Hall, an exile escaped from slavery, scarred by pox .
CAGGO, called CORPSEKILLER, his right hand, —HUGH HUNGERFORD, serjeant, former company paymaster, fined three fingers for stealing . —SER ORSON STONE, SER LUCIFER LONG, WILL OF THE WOODS, DICK STRAW, GINJER JACK, Westerosi sellswords —PRETTY MERIS, the company torturer, a Volantene swordsman and notorious
—BOKKOKO, an axeman of formidable repute, —UHLAN, a serjeant of the company, THE STORMCROWS, five hundred horse-riders, sworn to Queen Daenerys —DAAERIO NAHARIS, captain and commander —THE WIDOWER .
