A Storm of Swords Jaime Catelyn Arya Tyrion Davos Sansa Jon Daenerys Bran Davo . Jaime Tyrion . Aryrion Aryan . Tyrion Samwell The King on the Iron Throne The King in the North The Queen Across the Water King of the Isles and the North Appendix . Other Houses Great And Small House Arryn House Florent House Frey House Lannister House Tully House Tyrell . Append
The Brotherhood Without Banners an Outlaw Fellowship The Wildlings, or the Free Folk for Phyllis who made me put the dragons in A Note On Chronology A Song of Ice and Fire is told through the eyes of characters who are sometimes hundreds or even thousands of miles apart . With such a structure, the narrative cannot be strictly sequential; sometimes important things are happening simultaneously, a thousand leagues apart.
Lark the Sisterman stood with his arms crossed over his chest and his hands tucked up into his armpits . There was ice under the big man’s squashed pug nose, where his snot had frozen . A huge hand in a thick fur glove clenched tight around the shaft of a spear .
The Old Bear dies, and Blane from the Shadow Tower. Grubbs and Aethan as well, their ill luck for drawing the watch, Dywen and Barmen for their tracking, and Ser Piggy for the ravens. That’s all. We kill them quiet, while they sleep. One scream and we’re wormfood, every one of us.” The moon would be black tonight, and they had jiggered the watches so as to have eight of their own standing sentry 
Thoren Smallwood had returned in a lather three days past . He was telling the Old Bear what his scouts had seen . "They’re still well up the foothills, but they’re coming," Kedge Whiteye said .
The Old Bear had strengthened the Fist with spikes and pits and caltrops . If they stayed here, they would be engulfed and overwhelmed . Thoren Smallwood wanted to attack .
Lord Mormont was waiting for his other scouts, for Jarman Buckwell and the men who’d climbed the Giant’s Stair, and for Qhorin Halfhand and Jon Snow . The thought made him smile. I hope they killed his bloody wolf as well .
Lark had wanted to bring in twice that number, but what could you expect from some stupid fishbreath Sisterman? No, fourteen was a good number, enough to do what needed doing but not so many that they couldn’t keep the secret . Small Paul was one of his; the strongest man on the Wall, even if he was slower than a dead snail . They had Dirk as well, named for his favorite weapon .
Chett's plan was to whisper, “Give my love to Lord Snow,” right in his ear . He sliced Ser Piggy’s throat open to let the blood come bubbling out through all those layers of suet . Let him beg, it won’t do him no good . Softfoot and Small Paul would kill the Old Bear .
Chett had no trade to speak of, growing up in Hag’s Mire . He’d strip down bare but for a thick leather clout, and go wading in the murky waters . When he climbed out, he’d be covered from nipple to ankle . Sometimes he made him help pull the leeches off, and he beat him bloody .
Chett the leechman’s son, a lord with a keep, could be a dozen leeches on a field of pink . Craster had nineteen, not even counting the young ones, the daughters he hadn’t gotten around to bedding yet .
The only women Chett had ever known were the whores he’d bought in Mole’s Town . When he was younger, the village girls took one look at his face, with its boils and its wen, and turned away sickened . The worst was that slattern Bessa. She’d spread her legs for every boy in Hag’s Mire . He even spent a morning picking wildflowers when he heard she liked them .
Thoren Smallwood would strike south for the Shadow Tower, the shortest way to the Wall . It won’t matter anyhow. Once we’re gone, Smallwood can attack anyone he likes . They would need to kill Ser Ottyn and Ser Mallador Locke as well to give Smallwood the command .
Small Paul clouded up again. "Best not try and eat my bird, Lark. Best not." They emerged near the west face of the hill . Near the edge of the forest a dozen men were taking archery practice .
Tarly nocked and drew, held the draw a long moment as he tried to aim, and let fly . The shaft vanished into the greenery . Edd Tollett, the dour grey-haired squire everyone called Dolorous Edd .
Ser Piggy sounded shocked. “Grenn, did you see? Edd, look, I hit him!” The fat boy was shaking . “You hit a tree,” Chett said. “Let’s see how you shoot when it’s Mance Rayder’s lads. They won’t stand there with their arms out and their leaves rustling, oh no. The last thing you’ll hear will be the thunk it makes when it bites into your skull.”
Chett kicked the nearest dog, yanked on their leashes, and started up the hill . The climb was steep, even on this side of the Fist, which had the gentlest slope . Lord Commander Mormont had a bald head and a great shaggy grey beard .
Chett kept his mouth shut until the Old Bear sent him on his way . It seemed to him that it was growing even colder, which he would have swom . Instead he wrapped a wool scarf round the lower part of his face, leaving a slit for his mouth between the winds .
Twilight was creeping through the woods by the time he rid himself of the Sisterman and sat down to edge his sword . It was bloody hard work with his gloves on, but he wasn’t about to take them off . Dywen was holding forth at the cookfire as Chett got his heel of hardbread and a bowl of bean and bacon soup from Hake the cook .
Maslyn wasn’t eating neither, only staring at his soup as if smell of it was about to make him sick . The Old Bear stood before the fire with Smallwood, Locke, Wythers, and Blane ranged behind him in a row .
Thoren believes their van will be upon us ten days hence . Elsewhere their fighters will be spread thin along the line of march . They have oxen, mules, horses... But few enough . Most will be afoot, and ill-armed and untrained .
Thoren Smallwood: "If they pursue, we’ll lead them a merry chase, then wheel and hit again farther down the column. We’ll burn their wagons, scatter their herds, and slay as many as we can." "Many of us," the Old Bear said .
Clever bird thought Chett as the officers dismissed them . Or Small Paul forgot and tried to kill Mormont during the second watch in place of the third? Or Maslyn lost his courage, or someone turned informer, or... He found himself listening to the night . It wasn’t the knife I wanted to put in you, he wanted to tell her .
Snow would ruin everything he’d worked for, all his careful plans . It was a heavy fall, thick white flakes coming down all about him . They won’t need Dywen nor Bannen to hunt us down neither, not if we’re tracking through fresh snow . A horse could stumble over a root, break a leg on a stone .
Tarly was buried beneath a mound of black wool blankets and shaggy furs . The snow was drifting in to cover him . He looked like some kind of soft round mountain . Steel whispered on leather faint as hope as Chett eased his dagger from its sheath .
“Gods,” he heard Sam Tarly whimper, his feet tangled in his cloak and blankets . He kicked them away and reached for a chainmail hauberk he’d hung on the rock nearby . “Two blasts to call the Watch to arms. Two blasts for foes approaching. There’s an axe out there with Piggy writ on it,” said Chett .
Cersei Lannister felt dizzy and drunk on sunlight . He wore iron manacles on his wrists and a matching pair about his ankles . The big wench had overcome him.
Ser Cleos Frey was sent back to King’s Landing with new terms for the queen . The wine had made him sleepy, and it felt good to stretch, a luxury his chains had not permitted him in the cell . He had long ago learned to snatch sleep in the saddle during a march .
Ser Cleos was his Aunt Genna’s son by that dullard Emmon Frey . He had lived in terror of Lord Tywin Lannister since the day he wed his sister . Casterly Rock got the worst of that bargain, Jaime reflected .
Lady Catelyn sworn while dead drunk, chained to a wall, with a sword pressed to your chest . She is putting her hope in Tyrion, not in me . He was gentle with her; mocking this one would be easy there would be no sport to it .
Ser Cleos wore a surcoat quartered with the twin towers of House Frey and the golden lion of Lannister . "Tarth is beautiful," the wench grunted between strokes .
Ser Cleos coughed nervously. "Though she has steel in her spine, I’ll grant you." "Lady Brienne had those lies from Catelyn Stark, no doubt. The Starks cannot hope to defeat you with swords, ser, so now they make war with poisoned words." "Any man who’d believe that a Sworn Brother of the Kingsguard would harm a child does not know the meaning of honor," Lickspittle .
The War for Cersei’s Cunt, the singers will call it . "Let Robert do as he pleases. I’ll go to war with him if I must." "Jaime, let go of me!" she raged, struggling to rise, but instead he had kissed her . He remembered the taste of wine and cloves on her tongue . His hand went to her bodice and yanked, tearing the silk so her breasts spilled free
Jaime threw out the leeboard, his chains rattling as he moved . After that, they made better speed, with wind and current favoring their flight . She fears me, even in irons .
Ser Cleos hacked away manfully, sawing and ripping his way through the mats . The golden curls floated on the surface of the water, gradually falling astern . Jaime caught it and crushed it against his thumbnail . They trimmed back his beard as well .
The forks of the Trident were the easiest way to move goods or men across the riverlands . They would have encountered fisherfolk in their skiffs, grain barges being poled downstream, merchants selling needles and bolts of cloth . But the war had taken its toll. They sailed past villages, but saw no villagers . A young girl watering her horse rode off as soon as she glimpsed their sail .
A thin grey finger crooked them on, twisting and curling . Below, Jaime made out the smouldering remains of a large building . The thin ropes cut deeply into the soft flesh of their throats .
Ser Cleos Frey was staring up at one of the dead women . He looked up and down the river, to make sure they were quite alone . "This is Bracken land. Lord Jonos might have ordered them killed."
"I am as good a fighter as you," she said defensively . "You are under my protection. They’d need to kill me." "I shouldn’t think that would trouble them," she says .
Jaime sat chained, peering upriver. Only the top of the other sail was visible . Jaime’s big mouth worked soundlessly, giving her the look of a cow chewing its cud .
Jaime Lannister broke off rowing. Sweat had stuck strands of her flax-colored hair to her forehead . He had to laugh at such fierceness. She’s the Hound with teats, he thought .
Ser Robin Ryger was a notably tenacious fighter, but his day was done; he was of an age with Hoster Tully . When the boats were fifty yards apart, Jaime cupped his hands around his mouth and shouted over the water .
Ahead a large island sat in midstream. The main channel flowed right. Brienne moved the tiller and the skiff sheared left, sail rippling . Jaime watched her eyes. Pretty eyes, he thought, and calm. He knew what fear looked like .
Brienne waded through a shallow pool, scrambled over some rocks, and began to climb . The river galley came into full view at the top of the cutoff, twenty-five yards behind . Jaime decided to see if the old man’s pride would make him stupid .
Ser Robin shouted in dismay. The stone tumbled through the air, struck the face of the cliff, cracked in two, and smashed down on them . The larger piece snapped the mast, sent two archers flying into the river, and crushed the leg of a rower as he bent over his oar .
Catelyn Ser Desmond Grell had served House Tully all his life . He had seen her become a young woman, a great lord’s lady, mother to a king . To ease his discomfort he brought her father’s steward with him, dour Utherydes Wayn .
"The news must have driven you mad," Ser Desmond said firmly . "I understood what I was doing and knew it was treasonous. You did not know..." "I did," Catelyn said, firmly. "For the king’s mother, my lord’s own daughter? Impossible." "Mayhaps," said the steward Utherydes Wayn .
Lord Hoster was sleeping when Catelyn entered . She went out to the balcony and stood with one hand on the rough stone balustrade . The swift Tumblestone joined the placid Red Fork, and she could see a long way downriver .
Catelyn had grown accustomed to him taking her for her mother or sister Lysa . “It’s Cat, Father.” “Forgive me... the blood... oh, please... Tansy...” Suddenly she felt as though she had not known her father at all . It was a queer thought, unsettling .
A raven came to Riverrun in late afternoon, flapping down on great black wings to the rookery . The maester looked thoughtful. “There was a widow, I recall, she used to come to the castle looking for old shoes in need of new soles.” “Her name was Violet,” said Catelyn, who remembered the old woman very well .
Maester Vyman spoke to Utherydes Wayn, my lady . He is quite certain that no woman by the name of Tansy has ever been at Riverrun during his service . “Is it another battle, then? is Edmure in difficulty? Or Robb? Please, be kind, put my fears at rest.” “My lady, I should not...” He replied .
Lord Hoster's words disturbed Catelyn more than she could say, though she could make no sense of them . She woke with her father’s words echoing in her ears . But not her father, not Edmure, never. You’ll have others, he said .
Lysa and her sister had been married on the same day, and left in their father’s care when their new husbands had ridden off to rejoin Robert’s rebellion . When their moon blood did not come at the accustomed time, they had gushed happily of the sons she was certain they carried . She remembered the first time she gave her sister Robb to hold; small, red-faced, and squalling, but strong even then, full of life .
Catelyn rose, threw on a robe, and descended the steps to the darkened solar to stand over her father . She was no longer an innocent bride with a head full of dreams . The Arryns were proud, and prickly of their honor .
Tully men did not surrender easily, no matter the odds . Catelyn lit a candle to the Father Above for her own father’s sake . Ser Desmond did not forbid me the roof, she told herself as she climbed .
Three ravens had risen from the rookery, black wings beating at the air as they took flight . Catelyn watched them from her father’s balcony . She had washed her hair, changed her clothing, and prepared herself for her brother’s reproaches .
“No right,” Edmure repeated . “Brienne will keep him safe. She swore it on her sword.” “She will deliver Jaime to King’s Landing, and bring Arya and Sansa back to us safely.” “Cersei will never give them up.” “Jaime’s word is worthless. As for the Imp, it’s said he took an axe in the head during the battle.” “Dead?” Could the gods truly be so merciless?
Arya The sky was as black as the walls of Harrenhal behind them, and the rain fell soft and steady, muffling the sound of their horses’ hooves and running down their faces . Hot Pie and Gendry followed as best they could, and she could hear Hot Pie’s heavy breathing .
Roose Bolton stole three horses from the stables and a map from his own solar . She killed a guard on the postern gate, slitting his throat when he knelt to pick up the worn iron coin that Jaqen H’ghar had given her . They would wake Lord Bolton and search Harrenhal to cellar . When they did they would find the map and the dagger missing .
Arya Stark was a skinny girl on a stolen horse with a dark forest ahead of her and men behind who would gladly cut off her feet . The rain had washed the guard’s blood off her fingers, she wore a sword across her back, and wolves were prowling through the dark like lean grey shadows . It was too black beneath the trees to ride any faster; the soft broken ground was treacherous with half-buried roots and hidden stones . They crossed another road
Gendry's mare lost her footing in the mud once, spilling him from the saddle . When Hot Pie’s horse caught the scent, he shied and bolted . Two of the wolves fled as well, but the third raised his head and bared his teeth, prepared to defend his kill .
Hot Pie had stolen a loaf of bread from the kitchens and passed chunks of yellow cheese from hand to hand . Hot Pie peered around uncertainly. “But there’s no sun.” “What do we want with the north?” Gendry asked . “The Trident.” Arya unrolled the stolen map to show them .
Hot Pie and Gendry spied dark shapes crossing a stream in the valley behind them . When the largest of the wolves lifted its head and howled back, the sound made Arya shiver . The saddle was rubbing him raw inside his legs, and besides he had to get some sleep .
Hot Pie opened his mouth and closed it. He did not fall off his horse. The rain began again a short time later . Gendry was having almost as bad a time of it as Hot Pie .
Arya vowed silently, reaching back over her shoulder to touch the hilt of the sword that Gendry had stolen for her . The river was swollen by the rain, but even so it couldn’t be much more than thirty feet across . She remembered the Trident as being much wider . "Let’s have a look at that map again," said Gendry .
“We won’t be there for days. This must be some different river, one of these, see.” Hot Pie showed him some of the thinner blue lines the mapmaker had painted in . “The Darry, the Greenapple, the Maiden... here, this one, the Little Willow, it might be that.” “The Big Willow, then. See, and the Big Willow runs into the Trident, so we could follow the one to the other,” said Hot Pie .
Arya climbed back into the saddle, ignoring the two of them . If they didn’t want to follow, they could find Riverrun on their own . She had to ride a good half mile along the bank before finding a place where it looked as though it might be safe to cross .
Arya found her own exhaustion weighing heavy on her horse . She needed sleep as much as Hot Pie, but they dare not . But after a while the motion of her horse became as soothing as the rocking of a cradle .
The Mummers were in them, four at least, a pale Lyseni and a dark brutal axeman from Ib, the scarred Dothraki horse lord called Iggo . They thought they were hunting her, but she knew with all the strange sharp certainty of dreams .
The Lyseni’s mount reared and screamed in terror, and the others shouted at one another in mantalk, but before they could act the other wolves came hurtling from the darkness and the rain . The hairy man went down as he unslung his axe, the dark one died stringing an arrow and the pale man from Lys tried to bolt . Only the belled man stood his ground, snapping at the legs of his horse and tearing the throat from the
Cersei was behind Ser Mandon’s attempt to kill him, he knew that in his gut . “What’s that ugly thing on your chest?” he asked .
Ser Bronn of the Blackwater now, Imp. See you don’t forget it.” Tyrion put his hands on the featherbed and squirmed back a few inches, against the pillows . “I lost half my nose and you gain a knighthood. The gods have a deal to answer for.” His voice was sour .
Tyrion sent the Kettleblacks to fetch the king back to the Red Keep, the way I hear it . When the gold cloaks saw him leavin’ half decided they’d leave with him . Ironhand put himself in their path and tried to order them back to walls . “My nephew,” he said, “Joffrey. Washe in any danger?” “No more’n some, and less than most.”
Alayaya was a whore, true enough, but a sweeter, braver, more innocent girl he had seldom met . But if I don’t, Cersei wins . He was fond of Tommen .
Osney and Osfryd were knights after the battle, same as me . My hirelings betray me, my friends are scourged and shamed, and I lie here rotting, Tyrion thought . “Is it true that Stannis was put to rout by Renly’s ghost?” Bronn said thinly .
“You’re not the Hand,” Bronn said . “What happened to all the men you hired for me?” “Some died at the winch towers. That uncle of yours, Ser Kevan, he paid the rest of us and tossed us out.” “How good of him,” Tyrion said acidly .
The Tyrells have been carting food up from Highgarden and giving it away in her name . Wife, widow, or whore, the women are all giving up their virtue to every peach-fuzz boy with a gold rose on his teat . Tyrion slid from the bed to the floor, the room spun, and he had to grasp Bronn’s arm to keep from pitching headlong into the rushes .
Maegor’s Holdfast was the strongest place in the Red Keep, a castle within the castle . The drawbridge was up for the night when they reached the door . Ser Meryn Trant stood before it in his pale armor and white cloak .
Ser Meryn Trant gave the command, and the drawbridge was lowered . A second Kingsguard knight stood sentry across the moat . Tyrion could only gape at them in dismay . The outer ward was crowded with tents and pavilions .
Ser Addam smiled at the sellsword with distaste . "I fear I did not leave him in the best of moods," he asked . Tyrek was the son of his late Uncle Tygett, a boy of thirteen .
Lord Tywin Lannister was seated beneath the window, writing by the glow of an oil lamp . He raised his eyes at the sound of the latch. “Tyrion.” Calmly, he laid his quill aside . The look Bronn gave the Hand was little less than insolent .
The ceremony will herald the dawn of a new era . A new Lannister era, thought Tyrion . “Did you come here just to complain of your bedchamber and make your lame japes? I have important letters to finish.” “Important letters. To be sure.” “Some battles are won with swords and spears, others with quills and ravens.” “Maester Frenken is not so determined to keep me insens
"A dead enemy is a joy forever," Tyrion said blithely . The man had no reason to want him dead . He was only a catspaw, and I believe I know the cat .
Tyrell, Rowan, Redwyne, and Tarly fought nobly as well . Lord Tywin stared at him, unblinking . “I saved your bloody city, it seems to me.” “Most people seem to feel that my attack on Lord Stannis’s flank turned the tide of battle,” Tyrion said .
“We’ll have our own hostage,” Tyrion said . “You promised him vengeance as well.” “I promised him justice.” “Call it what you will. It still comes down to blood.” “Not an item in short supply, surely? I splashed through lakes of it during the battle.” Tyrion saw no reason not to cut to the heart of the matter .
Lord Tywin's eyes were a pale green flecked with gold, as luminous as they were merciless . I knew the answer before I asked, Tyrion thought . Eighteen years since Jaime joined the Kingsguard, I must have known .
Lord Tywin rose abruptly, to tower over his dwarf son . He watched the sail grow for a long time, trying to decide whether he would sooner live or die . The fever had been burning through him, turning his bowels to brown water and making him shiver in his restless sleep .
if thirst did not kill him, starvation would kill him . His island was no more than a barren spire jutting up out of the immensity of Blackwater Bay . When the tide was low, he could find crabs along the stony strand .
Davos had to scramble up the rock to keep from being swept out into the bay once more . The point of the spire was fifteen feet above the water at high tide, but when the bay grew rough the spray went even higher, so there was no way to keep dry . There were other rocks visible from his refuge, distant stony spires taller than his own .
Davos had always been a sailor; he was meant to die at sea . He knew where his rock lay, more or less; it was one of a series of sea monts . The tallest of them jutted a hundred feet above the tide, and a dozen lesser monts stood thirty to sixty feet high .
Davos and Black Betha had been in the second line of battle, between Dale’s Wraith and Allard on Lady Marya . Maric his thirdborn was oarmaster on Fury, at the center of the first line, while Matthos served as his father’s second .
Matthos had been standing at his elbow on the deck of Black Betha when the current took him and spun him around and around . Upstream, the flames had ripped at the sky, fifty feet high . He had seen black Betha afire, and Fury, and a dozen other ships, had seen burning men leaping into the water to drown .
Davos Seaworth had always been a strong swimmer, and he’d worn no steel that day . As he knifed through the green murk, he saw other men struggling beneath the water, pulled down to drown beneath the weight of plate and mail . With every stroke it grew harder to hold his breath . He remembered seeing the bottom, soft and dim, as a stream of bubbles burst from his lips . Something touched his leg... a snag or a fish or 
Davos lay on a stony strand beneath the spire of naked stone, with the empty bay all around and a broken mast, a burned sail, and the dead man vanished with the next high tide . Dale would never give his wife the child they had prayed for, and Maric would never have his knighthood . The Father protects his children, the septons taught, but davos had led his boys into the fire .
The fire took my luck as well as my sons . In his dreams the river was still aflame and demons danced upon the waters with fiery whips in their hands . "You called the fire," she whispered, her voice as faint as the sound of waves .
She had come from Asshai in the east and won Selyse and her queen’s men for her alien god, and then the king, Stannis Baratheon himself . At Melisandre’s urging, he had dragged the Seven from their sept at Dragonstone and burned them before the castle gates . You rowed her into Storm’s End in the black of night, so she might loose her shadow child .
Davos clung to his rock and watched it creep toward him . Four men were rowing, while a fifth sat in the prow . The words felt strange on his tongue and sounded stranger in his ears . "Aye, ser," the man said, "and serving which king?"
Sansa The invitation seemed innocent enough, but every time she read it her tummy tightened into a knot . She’s to be queen now, she’s beautiful and rich and everyone loves her, why would she want to sup with a traitor’s daughter? Does she resent me, I wonder?
Margaery Tyrell was sixteen, brown-haired and brown-eyed, slender and beautiful . The people called out her name as she passed, held up their children for her blessing, and scattered flowers under the hooves of her horse . Sansa wondered if Joffrey knew of this supper. Does she want me to love her too?
Sandor Clegane had come to her chambers to take her from the city . She had his stained white cloak hidden in a cedar chest beneath her summer silks . At the height of the battle, he got so drunk the Imp had to take his men .
Ser Loras touched her arm and led her toward the steps . She could feel the warmth of his hand through the silk . He has the warmest laugh, she thought as he went on .
Ser Balon Swann held the door of Maegor’s for them to pass . The outer ward had been given over to guests to raise their tents and pavilions . One of the Redwyne twins was being driven backward by Ser Tallad, with the eyes on his shield .
Ser Loras brushed the hilt of his sword lightly with his hand . Its grip was white leather, its pommel a rose in alabaster . The sharpness in his tone took her aback .
Lord Mace Tyrell and his entourage had been housed behind the royal sept . The sight of them might not tempt him into carnal thoughts . When Sansa got close enough to see their faces, she could not tell one from the other .
Lord Tyrell’s tall, dignified wife Lady Alerie was bound with jeweled rings . Margaery performed the other introductions . There were three Tyrell cousins, Megga and Alla and Elinor, all close to Sansa’s age .
Lord Hoster, surely they told you? An old man, though not so old as me. You’ve had your share of grief, I know. We are sorry for your losses. You are kind to say so,” answered Margaery. “Renly was brave and gentle, Grandmother,” said Lady Olenna .
Robert has two sons, and Renly has an older brother, how can he possibly have any claim to that ugly iron chair? You Starks were kings once, the Arryns and the Lannisters as well, but the Tyrells were no more than stewards until Aegon the Dragon came along and cooked the rightful King of the Reach on the Field of Fire .
Lady Alerie broke in, “you must be very hungry. Shall we have a bite of boar together, and some lemon cakes?” Lady Olenna said . All men are fools, if truth be told, but the ones in motley are more amusing than ones with crowns .
Little Lady Bulwer snagged one and handed it to him, whereby he tilted back his head, popped it into his huge rubbery mouth, and swallowed it whole . When he belched, tiny yellow feathers flew out his nose . Lady Olenna pushed herself forward to rest her elbows on table .
A lion is not a lap cat, I told him, and he gives me a ‘tut-tu-Mother’ . Lady Alerie and other women were giggling at the spectacle of Butterbumps bouncing oranges off his head, his elbows, and his ample rump .
Lady Olenna had warned her to speak freely only in the godswood . "Joff... King Joffrey, he’s... His Grace is very fair and handsome, and... and as brave as a lion." "He is very... very comely," Sansa said .
“My father always told the truth.” Sansa spoke quietly, but even so, it was hard to get the words out . “Lord Eddard, yes, he had that reputation, but they named him traitor and took his head off even so.” Margaery stopped abruptly, and covered her mouth . The old woman called to Butterbumps. “Fool! Give us a song. A long one, I should think. ‘The Bear and the Maiden Fair’ will do nicely.”
Butterbumps bowed low, let loose of an enormous belch, then straightened, and bellowed . “A bear there was, a bear... a BEAR! All black and brown, and covered with hair...” Lady Olenna squirmed forward . "They will be the better for a song, and we girls shall speak freely."
“Joffrey is a monster. He lied about the butcher’s boy and made Father kill my wolf. When I displease him, he’s evil and cruel, my lady, it’s so. And the queen as well.” Lady Olenna Tyrell and her granddaughter exchanged look . “Have no fear, Lord Puff Fish is determined that Margaery shall be queen.” “Sansa, would you like to visit Highgarden?” She smiled .
“You will love Highgarden as I do, I know it.” Margaery brushed back a loose strand of Sansa’s hair . “Once you see it, you’ll never want to leave. And perhaps you won’t have to.” “Sansa hasn’t even told us that she would like to come for a visit.” “Oh, but I would,” Sanssa said sharply .
Ser Loras was so pure, innocent, beautiful . She could only imagine what it would be like to pull up his tunic and caress the smooth skin underneath, to stand on her toes and kiss him, to run her fingers through those thick brown curls and drown in his deep brown eyes .
“He has never taken vows.” Her grandmother frowned . “He was hurt as a squire, riding in his first tourney,” Margaery confided. “His horse fell and crushed his leg.” “That snake of a Dornishman was to blame, that Oberyn Martell. And his maester as well.”
There were more fires than Jon Snow could count, hundreds of fires, thousands, a second river of flickery lights along the banks of the icy white Milkwater . The fingers of his sword hand opened and closed, the quiet broken only by the distant murmur of the river, the clop of hooves, and the clacking of Rattleshirt’s bone armor .
Jon Snow’s garron whickered softly, but a touch and a soft word soon quieted the animal . He was all in black, the black of the Night’s Watch, but the enemy rode before and behind . Ygritte wore the cloak of Qhorin Halfhand. Lenyl had his hauberk, the big spearwife Ragwyle his boots .
Ygritte sat beside him after she had eaten, her hood pulled up and her hands tucked into her sleeves for warmth . "You want to guard him? If you want us to do it, leave us be and we’ll do it," the wildling leader fixed him with an unfriendly stare . Jon’s sword hand opened and closed, flexing the burned fingers beneath the glove, but Longspear Ryk only laughed .
The wildlings had taken him for an oathbreaker, but in his heart he was still a man of the Night’s Watch, doing the last duty that I killed him . At the bottom of the slope they came upon a little stream flowing down from the foothills to join the Milkwater . Rattleshirt led them across, shattering the thin crust of ice . The black brothers told tales of this one .
“He slew Qhorin Halfhand,” said Longspear Ryk . “He’s a warg, or close enough,” put in Ragwyle . The Weeper’s red rheumy eyes gave Jon another look .
Jon saw a man hardening the points of long wooden spears and tossing them in a pile . Elsewhere two bearded youths in boiled leather were sparring with staffs, leaping at each other over the flames, grunting each time one landed a blow . He saw women dancing as well, and heard a baby crying .
Wildlings had no defenses to speak of, no pits nor sharpened stakes . Each group or clan or village had simply stopped where they wanted . The Night’s Watch had discipline, and in battle discipline beats numbers nine times of every ten .
The Dornishman’s blade was made of black steel, and its kiss was a terrible thing . Jon knew the song, though it was strange to hear it here, in a shaggy hide tent beyond the Wall .
A few feet away, a taller, leaner man in a leather shirt sewn with bronze scales stood frowning over a map . He was straight as a spear, clean-shaved, bald, with a strong straight nose and deepset grey eyes . Both the white-bearded man and the bald one were warriors, that was plain to Jon .
Jon scowled ferociously at Rattleshirt and Ygritte, with Jon between them . The earless man wondered whether he was expected to bend the knee as well . “Jon Snow, Your Grace?” The bearded man laughed so hard he sprayed bits of chicken everywhere .
The King-beyond-the-Wall looked nothing like a king, nor even much a wildling . He was of middling height, slender, sharp-faced, with shrewd brown eyes . There was no crown on his head, no gold rings on his arms, no jewels at his throat .
“Well met, Jon Snow. I am fond o’ wargs, as it happens,” said Tormund Thunderfist . “The good woman at the brazier,” Mance Rayder went on, “is Dalla.” “I am no man’s pet,” said Jarl, dark and fierce .
The King-beyond-the-Wall smiled at Jon . “I would speak with the lad alone, my Lord of Bones,” Mance Rayder said to Rattleshirt .
“I eat in no hall where I’m not welcome.” Tormund snatched another chicken off the brazier . He shoved it into a pocket sewn in the lining of his cloak, said “Har” and left licking his fingers . “I would be pleased to eat, Your Grace. And thank you.” “Your Grace?” The king smiled. “Tormund spoke truly,” said Mance Rayder .
Jon was riding escort to old Lord Commander Qorgyle when he came down to see your father at Winterfell . "I remember," said Jon with a startled laugh . “You swore not to tell.” “And kept my vow. That one, at least.” “We dumped the snow on Fat Tom. He was Father’s slowest guardsman.” Tom chased them around the yard afterward .
"I know every bawdy song that’s ever been made, north or south of the Wall," says Jon . "Bael the Bard," said Jon, remembering the tale that Ygritte had told him in the Frostfangs .
“Your father would have had my head off.” The king gestured at the board between them, the broken bread and chicken bones . “Here you are the guest, and safe from harm at my hands... this night, at least.” Jon Snow knew he walked on rotten ice here . He took a long draught of mead to buy time for his answer .
“I did. I do. That’s closer to the mark, yes. But not a hit.” Mance Rayder rose, unfastened the clasp that held his cloak . “I brought down a fine big elk. We were skinning it when the smell of blood drew a shadowcat out of its lair. I drove it off, but not before it shredded it to ribbons. Do you see? Here, here, and here?” he chuckled
“You say you were at Winterfell, the night my father feasted King Robert.” “I did say it, for I was.” “Then you saw us all. You saw them walk the center aisle with every eye upon them,” the king said . “Did you see where they put the bastard?” Mance Rayder looked at Jon’s face for a long moment .
Daenerys Stormborn, she was called, for she had come howling into the world on distant Dragonstone as the greatest storm in the memory of Westeros howled outside . A storm so fierce it ripped gargoyles from the castle walls and smashed her father’s fleet to kindling .
Dany had crossed the narrow sea half a hundred times as a girl . She liked the sharp salty smell of the air, and the vastness of horizons bounded only by a vault of azure sky above . It made her feel small, but free as well .
Captain Groleo was nervous as a maiden about carrying three dragons on his ship . Dany had consented to put his fears at ease, but their misery was so palpable that she soon changed her mind and insisted they be freed . Balerion suddenly seemed to have far fewer rats than she’d had before, when she sailed under the name Saduleon .
Dragons always preferred to attack from above, Dany had learned . The first time they had done it, she feared that they meant to kill each other . No sooner would they splash into the sea than they would rise again, shrieking and hissing .
"I cannot see Drogon," said Ser Jorah Mormont as he joined her on the forecastle . "We are the ones who are lost, ser." "Drogon has no taste for this wet creeping, no more than I do." "Is he lost again?" she asked curiously .
Whitebeard was taller than Ser Jorah, though not so muscular . His eyes were a pale blue, his long beard as white as snow and as flne as silk . The dragonpit still stands atop the Hill of Rhaenys, though all in ruins now .
King Aerys II had died before his daughter was born . “I had that great honor, Your Grace.” “Did you find him good and gentle?” Whitebeard smiled closer .
Ser Jorah named Rhaegar the last dragon once . He had to have been a peerless warrior to be called that, surely? “Your Grace,” said Whitebeard . “A warrior without peer... those are fine words, Your Grace, but words win no battles.” “Swords win battles,” Ser JORah said bluntly .
Ser Jorah was a little boy when our brother died. What was he truly like? “Able. That above all. Determined, deliberate, dutiful, single-minded.” “As you wish,” said Whitebeard .
"Strong Belwas is hungry!" he roared at everyone and no one in particular . He bowed again, and moved off to tend the needs of the man he served .
Strong Belwas was an ex-slave, bred and trained in the fighting pits of Meereen . Magister Illyrio had sent him to guard her, or so Belwas claimed . The Usurper on his Iron Throne had offered land and lordship to any man who killed her .
Ser Jorah and Arstan Whitebeard were her most formidable guardians, just as they had been for Aegon the Conqueror and his sisters three hundred years ago . In all the world there were but three living dragons, and those were hers; they were a wonder, and a terror, and beyond price .
Dany sat crosslegged on her bunk in the captain’s cabin, feeding her dragons . Balerion plunged onward through the dark and Dany was tucked in under her arms . She took a chunk of salt pork out of the bowl and held it up for dragons to see .
Rhaegal's head darted close, as if to steal the prize from his brother’s jaws . Dany gave the dragons the rest of the salt pork to squabble over, and patted the bed beside her . "Sit, goodser, and tell me what is troubling you."
Ser Jorah sat. "Strong Belwas. This Arstan Whitebeard. And Illyrio Mopatis, who sent them." "The warlocks in Qarth told you that you would be betrayed three times," the exile knight reminded her . "Mirri Maz Duur was the first," Dany said .
Magister Illyrio Mopatis is a friend to House Targaryen, and wealthy . "He was not born wealthy. In the world as I have seen it, no man grows rich by kindness," Drogon said .
Illyrio Mopatis wants you back in Pentos, under his roof . But you insist on surrounding yourself with men you do not know, like this puffed-up eunuch and the world’s oldest squire . He does all he does for love, Dany reminded herself .
Dany had seen Unsullied guards in the Free Cities, posted at the gates of magisters, archons, and dynasts . The slaves in Astapor can buy hundreds more like him out of fighting pits of Meereen .
The Bright Banners and Second Sons had fled as sellswords are wont to do in the face of hopeless odds . With dark falling, the Dothraki had retired to their own camps to drink and dance and feast, but none doubted that they would return on the morrow to smash the city gates, storm the walls, and rape, loot, and slave as they pleased .
Dothraki broke themselves on shields and spears like waves on a rocky shore . In the end only six hundred of them remained, but more than twelve thousand lay dead upon that field . One by one, each man cut off his braid and threw it down before the feet of the Three Thousand .
Ser Jorah bent over her chest, threw open the lid, and seized the first garment to hand, a pair of loose sandsilk trousers . "What use are wealthy friends if they will not put their wealth at your disposal, my queen?" Dany felt a rising excitement .
“Oh,” was all Dany had time to say as he pulled her close and pressed his lips down on hers . The Dothraki wore no beards, only long mustaches, and only Khal Drogo had ever kissed her before . When it ended, Ser Jorah let go of her, and she took a quick step backward .
Bran The ridge slanted sharply from the earth, a long fold of stone and soil shaped like a claw . Trees clung to its lower slopes, pines and hawthorn and ash, but higher up the ground was bare, the ridgeline stark against the cloudy sky . He could hear the wind sighing up amongst the branches overhead as he raced by .
The wolf prince remembered their scents, his brothers and his sisters . They all had smelled of pack, but each was different too . He could not smell them, nor hear their howls by night, yet he felt their presence at his back... all but the sister they had lost .
Deer was down and dying when he reached her, ringed by eight of his small grey cousins . The heads of the pack had begun to feed, the male first and then his female, taking turns tearing flesh from the red underbelly of their prey . His pack brothers turned at the sound and showed them his own teeth .
The prince was larger, and much the stronger, but his cousin had a pack . From time to time the other wolves would dart in as well, to snap at a leg or an ear . One angered him so much that he whirled in a black fury and tore out the attacker’s throat .
No, he thought. No, I won’t. It was a boy’s thought, not a direwolf’s . He saw a big man’s grinning face, and a stone vault whose walls were spotted with niter . The rich warm taste of blood faded on his tongue .
“I’m sick of frogs.” Meera was a frogeater from the Neck . “I wanted to eat the deer.” Bran flushed. “Did you mark the trees?” Bran said. “You always forget.” It was true. There were always things to see and things to smell, a whole green world to hunt. And he could run!
He hated Jojen when he got stupid like this . He liked Summer’s skin better than his own . “Will you remember? And next time, mark the tree. Any tree, it doesn’t matter, so long as you do it.” But I’ll eat my deer first .
Meera Reed was sixteen, a woman grown, but stood no higher than her brother . She wore a long sharp dagger, but her favorite way to fight was with a slender three-pronged frog spear in one hand . "Who’s hungry?” she asked, holding up her catch: two small silvery trout and six fat green-frogs . “We’ll just have to feed you, then. Will you help me clean the catch, Bran?” He nodded
Bran and Meera were cleaning the fish and frogs . They used Meera’s helm for a cooking pot, chopping up the catch into little cubes and tossing in some water and some wild onions Hodor had found to make a froggy stew . “It seems safe, I know,” said Jojen .
"You want us to travel a longer road on foot, without even knowing where it ends," his sister said . "We have no legs but Hodor. If we were mounted... We might fly," Jojen sharply, "but we have no wings, no more than we have horses." "There are horses to be had," Meera said. "The last thing we need is men hunting us."
Bran was not a prince like Bran, nor big and strong like Hodor, nor as good a hunter as Meera . "We should steal horses like Meera wants," Bran said, "and ride to the Umbers up at Last Hearth" "Hodor!” burped Hodor. “Hodor, hodor.” He was the only one who liked Bran’s plan, though .
Bran claimed his uncle’s sword, Meera, was the one she found upon the knees of Lord Rickard . He could swing it for hours at a time . There was a rotted tree near the tumbled stones that he had hacked half to pieces .
Bran still feared the three-eyed crow who haunted his dreams sometimes . “You’re a greenseer.” “No,” said Jojen, “only a boy who dreams. The greatest of them could wear the skins of any beast that flies or swims or crawls” .
We have sworn you our faith by earth and water, bronze and iron, ice and fire . Bran tried to think it through, the way his father might have . We would be safe with the Umbers or the Karstarks, or they could go south to fat Lord Manderly .
A pale grey wisp of smoke blew from the top of the mountain to mark where the island lay . Melisandre had been much in his thoughts as Shayala’s Dance made her way across Blackwater Bay and through the Gullet . She would be waiting on Dragonstone as well, waiting in all her beauty and all her power .
Khorane Sathmantes was a Lyseni like Salladhor Saan . He had spent many years trading in the Seven Kingdoms . When he learned that the man he plucked from the sea was the celebrated onion knight, he gave him the use of his own cabin .
Captain Khorane had told him of the end of Stannis’s hopes, on the night the river burned . The Lannisters had taken him from the flank, and his fickle bannermen had abandoned him by the hundreds in the hour of his greatest need . He wondered if his sons would return as shades as well .
A fit of coughing seized Davos as he tried to answer . He clutched the rail for support and spat over the side . “No one goes to the king,” Khorane Sathmantes replied firmly. “Salladhor Saan will tell you. Him first.” He could only nod.
Salladhor Saan kissed Davos once on each cheek and a third time on his forehead . He was reminded of Patchface, Princess Shireen’s lackwit fool. He had gone into the sea as well, and when he came out he was mad .
Davos let the elder of the two eunuchs escort him to a large and lavishly furnished cabin at the stem of the ship . The cheese and olives arrived shortly, and a cup of steaming hot red wine. He held it between his hands and sipped it gratefully. The warmth felt soothing as it spread through his chest .
Salladhor Saan has suffered more from pirates than Saan . "I cut off no man’s fingers, though. What good are bits of fingers," he said .
Ragged Jenna, Swift Sword, Laughing Lord, and some others were upstream of the pyromancers’pissing, yes. Some few were surrendering, but with the chain raised, neither could they be flying. Most rowed far up the Blackwater, away from the battling, and then were sunk by their crews so they would not be falling into Lannister hands .
Salladhor Saan sees no one, but broods in his Stone Drum . It is a little kingdom they are ruling, poor and rocky, yes . There is no gold, no ships but my little brave few . A sudden racking cough bent Davos over, and he recovered .
The Lyseni chose a plump olive from the bowl between them . "The red woman did this to him," Melisandre said . He popped the olive into his mouth .
A knife in the heart, though... even demons can be killed by cold iron, the singers say . "These are dangerous talkings, my friend," Salladhor Saan warned him . “You are a treacherous old rogue, but a good friend all the same,” The Lyseni stroked his pointed silver beard .
“She took Lord Sunglass from the dungeons,” he guessed, “and Hubard Rambton’s sons” . “Just so, and burned them, as she will burn you for revenge, and if you fail to kill her,” said Davos. “To make an end of Melisandre of Asshai and all her works.” “A wind,” insisted Salladhor Saan loudly, “an ill wind, is all. A wind drove her
Salladhor Saan is making this much harder, thought Davos wearily . “You are weak as a child, and no warrior. Stay, I beg you, we will talk more and you will eat” He waved an angry hand with rings on every finger .
His walk up from the Bountiful Harvest to Dragonstone was long and lonely . He had stepped around squealing pigs and naked children, rats scurried . His legs felt like pudding beneath him, and thrice the coughing racked him so badly he had to stop and rest . The windows were shuttered, the doors barred, and more than half the houses displayed some mark of mourning .
Aegon’s Garden had a pleasant piney smell to it, and tall dark trees rose on every side . There were wild roses as well, and towering thorny hedges and a boggy spot where cranberries grew .
The fool Patchface popped from the bushes, shambling along as fast as he could go with the Princess Shireen hot on his heels . When the fool saw Davos, he jerked to a sudden halt, the bells on his antlered tin helmet going ting-a-ling . At the last instant he went over a patch of bracken and vanished among the trees . The princess was right behind him, but at the last moment he
Edric Storm had known that almost at once . He had the prominent ears of a Florent, but the hair, the eyes, the jaw, the cheekbones, those were all Baratheon . “My father taught me to fight,” the boy said proudly .
Ser Axell Florent was coming down the garden path with a dozen guards in quilted jerkins . On their breasts they wore the fiery heart of the Lord of Light . The queen’s uncle, he had served as castellan of Dragonstone for a decade .
Ser Cleos scrambled to take down the sail . When they bumped softly against the pier, he climbed out to tie them up . Jaime clambered after him, made awkward by his chains . “Is this some special place?” the wench asked, suspicious .
Ser Cleos looked suspiciously at the coin, and then at Jaime’s manacles . He edged around to peer through the thick, diamond-shaped windowpanes and see if any more of them were outside . "Is there bread?" asked Brienne.
"Where is this wife of yours?" Ser Cleos asked . He caught it in the air, bit it, and tucked it away . The lad raised the crossbow to his shoulder, gave them one last sullen look .
Jaime and Cleos drank ale, Brienne a cup of cider . The cook drew a tankard of ale and sat with them . "Where are you bound, ser?" "King’s Landing." "Then you’re three fools."
I mean to follow the Trident to the sea," the wench told their host . "We’ll find mounts at Maidenpool and ride by way of Duskendale and Rosby. That should keep us well away from the worst of the fighting.” Their host shook his head . “And who is this lightning lord?” asked Ser Cleos Frey .
“I’d say that’s so,” their cook agreed . “If m’lady cares to wager her skin on that I won’t stop her... but I’d leave this here river, cut overland.” “There are horses here,” said Jaime .
"The dray was stabled here when the wife and me come on the inn," the man said . The saddlecloth had originally been checkered pink and black, but now it was mostly brown . "Don’t speak discourteously of your horse, ser," he advised Brienne .
The man scooped the other two dragons from her palm and jingled them in his fist, smiling at the sound they made . “No,” Brienne said at once. “You’re like to blunder into some bog or break your horse’s leg.” “We’ll have no trouble finding our way.” Their host chewed on that .
Ser Warren went off and died, so I couldn’t say who holds it now, but it’s a place best shunned . Jaime kept the thought to himself. He was tired of being disregarded by this huge ugly cow of a woman .
Ser Cleos was all complaints as they rode out, still in mourning for his featherbed . The Red Fork was very broad here, but shallow, its banks all mud and reeds . It felt good to be mounted once more, though the poor old thing had a tendency to want to drift off to the side of his good eye .
Jaime gave her grudging smile . The ruddy light from the upper windows of the stone towerhouse gave them warning of its presence a long way off . By then all three of them were drooping in their saddles .
Jaime twisted idly at his chains . “Your crimes are past forgiving, Kingslayer.” “That name again.” “You’ve harmed others. The weak, the innocent...” It always came back to Aerys .
Old Ser Harlan Grandison had died in his sleep, as was only appropriate for one whose sigil was a sleeping lion . “The king won’t ask him. And once it’s done, Father can’t object, not openly.” “Is it a rock you want? Or me?” Jaime said .
Jaime’s investiture freed him from Lysa Tully . He could not object openly—Cersei had judged that correctly—but he resigned the Handship on some thin pretext . Instead of being together, Cersei and Jaime just changed places . So swiftly did the Hands rise and fall that Jaime remembered their heraldry better than their faces .
“I never harmed Renly. I’ll kill the man who says I did.” “Lies. Lady Catelyn was there when His Grace was murdered, she saw. There was a shadow . The candles guttered and the air grew cold, and there was blood—” “Oh, very good.” Jaime laughed again . “I earned my knighthood. Nothing was given to me. It was that white cloak that soiled me,” she said .
Jaime curled up beneath his cloak, hoping to dream of Cersei . But when he closed his eyes, it was Aerys Targaryen he saw . The fool was always cutting himself on the blades and barbs of the Iron Throne .
Jaime lost control of his bowels, turned, and ran for the Iron Throne . He hauled the last dragonking bodily off the steps, squealing like a pig . A single slash across his throat was all it took to end it .
Crakehall asked, and Jaime read the question plain: Shall it be your father, or Robert Baratheon, or do you mean to try to make a new dragonking? He thought for a moment he was tempted, until he glanced down again at the body on the floor, in its spreading pool of blood . Then he climbed the Iron Throne and seated himself with his sword across his knees, to see who would come to claim the kingdom .
Tyrion waited until Varys was summoned by his father before slipping in to pay him a visit . “I’d hoped to discover bushel baskets of juicy secrets to while away the waiting, but there’s not a paper to be found.” Tyrion had searched for hidden passages too .
Tyrion had stripped Pycelle of office, beard, and dignity, and flung him down into a black cell . “I seem to recall that Maegor the Cruel’s headsman unmade three with his axe.” “Quite true,” Varys tittered. “Well, it would have been more in keeping with tradition.” “Alas, I am quite dragonless. I suppose I could have dipped Grand Maester Gerardys to his dragon” .
Ser Boros Blount was stripped of his white cloak for failing to die in defense of Prince Tommen . The man was no friend of Tyrion’s, but after that he likely hated Cersei almost as much . “I wonder, could this delightfully unexpected visit of yours happen to concern Ser Mandon’s fallen brother,” said Tyrion pointedly.
Ser Barristan was once heard saying that the man had no friend but his sword and no life but duty... but you know, I do not think Selmy meant it altogether as praise . By those lights, our brave Ser Mandon was the perfect white knight . And he died as a knight of the Kingsguard ought, with sword in hand, defending one of the king’s own blood, you mean .
Tyrion had seen her climbing serpentine steps with a pail of water . The way she touched his arm and smiled for him had tied Tyrion’s guts into knots . “You are wise to suspect so, my good lord.” “Who?” cocked his head .
Tyrion fingered the scab on his nose . He did not see how it could be done, but perhaps some plan would come to him later . It’s even worse than I feared, but it grieves me to tell you .
The rest of the day seemed to creep by as slow as a worm in molasses . Tyrion climbed to the castle library and tried to distract himself with Beldecar’s History of the Rhoynish Wars . He scrubbed himself until the water grew cool, and then had Pod even out his whiskers .
Seven hells, dwarf, did you lose all your sense along with your nose? Cursing, Tyrion stripped and dressed again, in simpler garb . The moon was peeping over the castle wall when he told Podrick Payne he was going to pay a call on Varys .
“Prince Aemon the Dragonknight took his vows at seventeen,” Ser Loras said . “To guard the king’s life, you surrender your own. You give up your lands and titles, give up hope of marriage, children...” Tyrion cocked his head, smiling . I loved a maid as fair as summer, with sunlight in her hair .
“My lord.” A woman sidled into the light; plump, soft, matronly, with a round pink moon of a face and heavy dark curls . “For one horrid moment I thought you’d brought me Lollys instead of Shae. Where is she?” “Oh, you’re so smart,” she pouted, snatching her hands away .
Tyrion was so eager that he exploded on the fifth stroke . She smiled wickedly when she felt him spurting, and leaned forward to kiss the sweat from his brow . It feels so good to hold her, and to be held, he thought .
“I didn’t die. Here I am.” “I know.” Shae wriggled atop him, smiling . “I don’t want to leave. You promised you’d move me into a manse again after the battle.” Tyrion had almost forgotten about Shae’s thrice-damned singer .
Symon says there’s to be a dancing bear at the feast, and wines from the Arbor . It was the singer who concerned him, not the bear . "They do it worse than I do," Shae gushed . The doves liked to shit on him especially, or so he had always suspected .
Tyrion set the candle down and began to gutter . He told Shae to dress and wait for the eunuch . “You are my lion, aren’t you? My giant of Lannister?” he said .
Podrick Payne was asleep in his trundle bed at the foot of Tyrion’s, but he woke the boy . “Ser Bronn?” Pod rubbed the sleep from his eyes. “Why no, I woke you up so we could have a little chat about the way he dresses,” said Tyrion .
Arya She was grubbing for vegetables in a dead man’s garden when she heard the singing . It’s not fair, not when we finally found the Trident . Hot Pie had heard it too, to judge by the look on his face .
Hot Pie was easy to wake, unlike Hot Pie, who needed to be kicked and shouted at . The cabbages fell to the ground with soft thumps. “We have to hide.” Where? The burned cottage and its overgrown garden stood hard beside the banks of the Trident .
Arya dropped carrots and drew the stolen sword from over her shoulder . It was made for a man grown, and it bumped against the ground when she wore it on her hip . She moved to the big old willow that grew beside the bend in the road . You tree gods, she prayed as the singer’s voice grew louder .
A small man, fifty from the look of him, had a big mouth, a sharp nose, and thinning brown hair . He had bad teeth and a bushy brown beard, but it was his hooded yellow cloak that drew the eye . "An honest man would come out and show us his face," Arya said .
The last of the three was a youth as skinny as his longbow, if not quite as tall . He wore a studded brigantine, high boots, fingerless leather gloves, and a quiver on his back . His arrows were fletched with grey goose feathers, and six of them stood in the ground before him .
“I’m Hot Pie,” Hot Pie said at once. “Aye, and good for you.” The man smiled . “Why should I tell you my name? I haven’t heard yours.” “Well, as to that, I’m Tom of Sevenstreams, but Tom Sevenstrings is what they call me, or Tom o’ Sevens. This great lout with the brown teeth is Lem, short for Lemoncloak.” “Now who are you?” asked Lem .
Arya didn’t think they were king’s men at all . They looked more like outlaws, all tattered and ragged . But Hot Pie piped up eagerly . “You be quiet, or I’ll stuff rocks in your big stupid mouth,” he said.
The thought of hot food made Arya’s belly rumble, but she didn’t trust this Tom . “It’s near, you say?” “Two miles upstream,” said Tom. “What do you mean, friends?” “Sharna is the innkeep’s name,” Tom put in .
Arya had a second arrow thrummed behind her like a bee . The bowman's shaft went hissing past her head within an inch of her ear and buried itself in the trunk of the willow behind her . "More fool you if you think so," said Anguy .
Tom Sevenstrings walked slowly, and liked to strum his woodharp as he went . He had a good voice and he sang well, even bouncing in his saddle a little on the rhymes.
A small brook flowed into the Trident a little farther on . Anguy stopped where he stood, unslung his bow, notched an arrow, and brought it down . The duck fell in the shallows not far from the bank, complaining all the while .
“Against the current?” Gendry frowned . “We shot a duck, is what you’re meaning. Get your boots off, are you deaf or just stupid?” she called loudly .
Arya asked the old woman as gingerly as if she were Rorge or Biter or Vargo Hoat . The woman gave the vegetables a close inspection, and the boy a closer one . “I give my diners and my dishes different names, so as to tell them apart.” He hurried back .
Arya and Hot Pie looked down her long nose at Hot Pie . “I am not in the habit of serving ale to children, but the cider’s run out, there’s no cows for milk.” “So would Lem,” offered Anguy with a sly smile .
"You must have been drunk, or asleep," said Lem. "You could have taken them yourself," Lem told Husband . "I'd wager, with that harp o’ yours, singing all them sad songs just to get poor Fern out of her smallclothes."
Hot Pie made a face as soon as he tasted it . It was hard to chew, though, and burned on the bottom . "You’re less like to break your teeth," said Lem .
“You can eat it or go hungry,” Husband said . Hot Pie tapped the folded parchment with his finger . “I’m paying you a handsome price. More than any horse is worth, if truth be told.” Hot Pie grabbed the parchment .
Arya slapped the parchment out of Hot Pie’s hand . He laughed aloud, and then they were laughing . The door burst open and there was no cause for spilling good ale on my floor .
Arya's only answer was to reach over her shoulder for her sword, but before she had it halfway drawn Lem grabbed her wrist . He twisted her arm until her hand opened. His fingers were hard with callus and fearsomely strong . It’s happening again, like it happened in the village, with Chiswyck and Raff .
Arya threw herself forward, trying to wrench free of Lem’s iron grip . “Harwin, it’s me!” Harwin’s eyes went from her face to the flayed man on her doublet . He said, frowning suspiciously. “I was Lord Bolton’s cupbearer but he was going to leave me for the goat,” she said.
Catelyn Robb, she knew, the moment she heard the kennels erupt . Edmure had not returned after his first visit, preferring to spend his days with Marq Piper and Patrek Mallister, listening to Rymund the Rhymer’s verses about the battle at the Stone Mill .
Ser Perwyn Frey had traveled with her to Bitterbridge and Storm’s End and back . They did not come back, nor would Maester Vyman tell her who they had been, where they had gone, or what had made them so angry . By the time Ser Desmond came for her, she had bathed and combed out her auburn hair .
The Greatjon roared out, “King in the North!” and thrust a mailed fist into the air . Robb stood on the dais. He is sixteen now, a man grown. Just look at him. The recent rains had rusted his mail and left brown stains on his face .
Ser Brynden Tully was the Young Wolf, King of the Trident and the North . He leapt off the dais and pulled Catelyn into his arms . She had to struggle to keep her composure .
Lord Rickard Karstark pushed past the Greatjon, like some grim specter with his black mail and long ragged grey grey beard . “Lord Rickard, the Kingslayer’s dying would not have bought life for your children.” The lord was unappeased. “I name it treason.” “Enough.” For just an instant Robb sounded more like Brandon than his father .
Lord Rickard shouldered between the Greatjon and Maege Mormont and left the hall . Catelyn bowed her head. “If you will forgive me.” “I know what it is to love so greatly you can think of nothing else.” “We must talk,” Robb went on .
Robb, the three Tullys, and the six strangers Catelyn couldn't place . "My lady, sers, are you new to my son’s cause?" "Mother," he said, "may I present the Lady Sybell, the wife of Lord Gawen Westerling of the Crag." The pepperpot knight inclined his head .
Lady Jeyne Westerling came forward last, and very shy . The second thought flew across Catelyn’s mind was, No, that cannot be, you are only a child .
"His Grace has gotten along for sixteen years without you, Rollam," said Lady Sybell . "Your wife is lovely," Catelyn said when they were out of earshot . The Crag is not strong. For love of me, Jeyne may lose all."
"I took her castle and she took my heart.,'' Robb smiled . Jeyne Westerling had me taken to her own bed, and she nursed me until the fever passed . "That night, she... she comforted me, Mother," Catelyn said .
Ser Wendel Manderly has offered to take one, and the Greatjon tells me his uncles wish to wed again . The Westerlings are better blood than the Freys. They’re an ancient line, descended from the First Men .
Grey Wind killed a man at the Crag, another at Ashemark, and six or seven at Oxcross . Grey Wind doesn’t like her uncle either. You can’t blame her for being afraid .
"I am not going to banish him just because my wolf doesn’t seem to like the way he smells," Robb sighed . "Any man Grey Wind mislikes is a man I do not want close to you," he frowned . “You must know that. I think perhaps the gods sent them to us."
Robb took the high seat, removed his crown, and set it on the floor beside him . Edmure was filling his uncle’s ear with the whole story of the fight at the Stone Mill . It was only after the servants had come and gone that the Blackfish cleared his throat .
Lord Tywin turned his host at once, joined up with Matthis Rowan and Randyll Tarly . He made a forced march to Tumbler’s Falls, where he found Mace Tyrell and two of his sons waiting with a huge host and a fleet of barges . “We were all horsed,” Ser Brynden said .
Catelyn remembered King Renly’s court, as she had seen it at Bitterbridge . The wealth and power of Highgarden could have made all the difference in the fighting yet to come . If Joffrey is wed, the Lannisters will take the fleld against me once more .
Ser Rodrik had defeated a force of ironmen near Torrhen’s Square . “By now he may have done it. There has been no news for a long while. And what of the Trident, if I turn north? I can’t ask the river lords to abandon their own people.” “How will you get the northmen to the north?” Catelyn asked .
In Old Nan’s stories, giants were outsized men who lived in colossal castles, fought with huge swords, and walked about in boots a boy could hide in . They were something else, more bearlike than human, and as wooly as the mammoths they rode . Their legs were shorter than their arms, but very thick, and they wore no boots at all .
Tormund shouted something up to him as he passed, harsh clanging words in a tongue that Jon did not comprehend . The giant’s lips split apart to reveal a mouth full of huge square teeth . After a moment Jon realized he was laughing .
Tormund Thunderfist shook snow from his arm and turned his horse about . Ghost loped silently beside them, leaving paw prints in the new-fallen snow . The worst thing was, she woke up when the spring come and took me for her babe . "I never did, but see you don’t go spreading that about."
Mance Rayder found the Horn of Joramun, and given it to Tormund Thunderfist . The more I drank the more I got to thinking about this woman lived close by . I bundled myself up in furs from head to heels, wrapped a winding wool around me face, and set off to find her .
The woman had a terrible temper, and she put up quite the fight when I laid hands on her . When I woke the snow had stopped and the sun was shining, but I was in no fit state to enjoy it . The free folk were telling tales o’ this bald bear seen in the woods . “Only half. And half me member is twice as long as any other man’s.” Tormund snorted .
Ygritte threw her sleeping skins down beside his own, no matter if he was near the fire or well away from it . When he woke to find her nestled against him, her arm across his chest . He thought this must be the first time where a direwolf took the place of the sword .
Ygritte's hair was such a tangle that Jon was tempted to ask her if she only brushed it at the changing of the seasons . When she grinned, the crooked teeth didn’t matter . Sometimes she sang in a low husky voice that stirred him . But he had said the words before the weirwood, before his father’s gods .
“No, but I...” What can I say that he will believe? “I am still too young to wed.” “Wed?” Jon could feel himself turning red again . “I might get her with child.” “Aye, I’d hope so. A strong son or a lively laughing girl kissed by fire?” Words failed him for a moment .
Jon was growing fond of Tormund Giantsbane, great bag of wind and lies though he was . There was Harma Dogshead, a squat keg of a woman with cheeks like slabs of white meat, who hated dogs and killed one every fortnight to make a fresh head for her banner .
Jon had beheld the Hornfoot men trotting along in column on bare soles as hard as boiled leather . Half the wildling host had lived all their lives without so much as a glimpse of the Wall, he judged . Mance Rayder had spent years assembling this vast plodding host .
The Halfhand suspected the wildlings had gone up into the bleak and barren Frostfangs in search of some weapon, some power, some fell sorcery with which to break the Wall... but no one was boasting of it openly, or showing it to Jon . The prospect gave Jon no joy; there would be no honor in such a killing, and it would mean his own death as well . For eight thousand years the men of House Stark had lived and died to protect their people against such 
Mormont will not run, Jon thought. He is too old and he has come too far. He will strike, and damn the numbers . Three hundred men could not hope to kill a hundred times their number, of course, but Jon did not think they would need to .
a good third of the wildlings were grouped at either end of the column, in Harma Dogshead’s van and the savage rearguard with its giants, aurochs, and fire flingers . The rest, divided into small bands under the likes of Rattleshirt, Jarl, Tormund Giantsbane, and the Weeper, served as outriders, foragers, whips, galloping up and down the column endlessly to keep it moving
Stonesnake had called her a “spearwife” when they’d captured her in the Skirling Pass . It was hard to tell how plump or thin Ygritte might be, with all the furs and skins she wore . “The last of the giants, who ruled all the world at my birth,” he bellowed back through the snow.
In stone halls they burn their great fires . They hunt me with dogs in the daylight . There were tears on Ygritte’s cheeks when the song ended .
Jon Snow was on his face with the taste of mud and blood in his mouth and Ygritte kneeling over him protectively, a bone dagger in her hand . He could still hear wings, though the eagle was not in sight . His face was throbbing. Tormund stood over them bellowing, he saw from his right eye as he rubbed blood from his left .
Jon had slain the wildling Orell, but some part of the man remained within the eagle . The blood kept running down into his right eye, and his cheek was a blaze of pain . He could be leagues away by now, ripping out the throat of some elk .
A crust of thin ice covered the river shallows; with every step their horses’ hooves crashed through, until they reached the deeper water ten yards out . The shape of the great white hill that loomed above the trees was unmistakable . It was there at the bottom that Jon saw the dead horse, sprawled at the base of the hill, half buried in the snow .
Jon had never seen pink snow before, pulling at his heavy sheepskin cloak . Ravens flapped from one dead horse to the next . A crust of frozen blood crunched beneath the heel of his boot .
“I am not your lord,” said Mance Rayder . “You did not find his body?” Harma snorted, her disdain frosting from her nostrils . He stepped closer to Longclaw’s hilt .
“I am fast losing patience with you, crow.” “Say it,” Ygritte urged. “He’s dead, whoever he was.” His frown cracked the blood on his cheek . The second step is always easier than the first. “The Old Bear.” “That old man?” Harma’s tone said she did not believe it . “If so, our war is won.
“You can’t kill a man for lying to protect them as was his brothers,” said Styr . “They’re not,” insisted Ygritte. “He never killed me, like they told him. And he slew the Halfhand, we all saw.” He looked Mance Rayder in the eyes, opened and closed his burned hand. “I wear the cloak you gave me, Your Grace.” “And there’s many a night we dance beneath it, too!” asked
Jon and Ygritte were left with Jarl, Rattleshirt, and the Magnar . The two older wildlings looked at Jon with ill-concealed rancor as Jarl said, “You heard, we ride at daybreak. Bring all the food you can, there’ll be no time to hunt. You look a bloody mess.” “I will,” said Jon. “You best not be lying, girl. You got no wolf to help you here, boy.” Jon reached for his own
“Your bosom will be as lovely as the queen’s,” the old woman said . She measured Sansa’s hips with a length of knotted string . “You will be pleased, I know you will. You shall have smallclothes and hose as well,” she asked the seamstress .
"Thank Her Grace kindly for her thoughtfulness," Sansa said politely . "Her Grace is most generous," the seamstress agreed, as she gathered up her things and took her leave . It made her uneasy . Lady Leonette gave her lessons on the high harp .
Sansa and Alla played a kissing game sometimes, she confessed, but it wasn’t the same as kissing a man, much less a king . He kissed me and threatened to kill me, and made me sing him a song .
It was the first time she had been outside the city since the battle . The dead had been burned or buried, but the Mud Gate was scarred and splintered . Margaery’s peregrine took a heron in full flight .
"I shouldn’t think so," Margaery smiled confidently . "I shall have the finest knight in the Seven Kingdoms protecting me night and day, as Prince Aemon protected Naerys." She laughed, and said, “Come, sweet sister, let’s race back to the river. It will drive our guards quite mad.” And yet, her doubts still gnawed at her .
Ser Dontos told her she was going to Highgarden to marry Willas Tyrell . He grabbed her arm and said, “You cannot!” in a voice as thick with horror as with wine . Sansa slipped from his grasp and stepped away from him .
Sansa Tyrell would have Highgarden, what would he want with Winterfell? Sometimes she would whisper his name into her pillow just to hear the sound of it . She would name them Eddard and Brandon and Rickon, and raise them all to be as valiant as Ser Loras, and to hate Lannisters, too.
Arya The rains came and went, but there was more grey sky than blue . She noticed that the moss was growing mostly on the wrong side of the trees . Ilyn Payne woke trembling. She did not want Margaery to suffer as she had, but dreaded the thought that the Tyrells might refuse to go ahead with the wedding .
“We shouldn’t have left the river. All we had to do was follow it,” she said . “The river bends and loops,” said Gendry . Hot Pie was stupid and craven, but she’d gotten used to him .
Arya left out the stableboy she’d stabbed with Needle, and the guard whose throat she cut to get out of Harrenhal . She had told him about his father Hullen, and how he’d found him dying by the stables in the Red Keep, the day she fled . The iron coin he'd given her kept tucked away beneath her belt, but sometimes at night she would take it out .
Lord Tywin sent his Mountain across the Red Fork with fire and sword, hoping to draw your lord father . He planned for Lord Eddard to come west himself to deal with Gregor Clegane . “He killed Jory,” Harwin said, and your father’s leg was broken when his horse fell on him .
Raymun Darry was slashed with a single blow so terrible that it took Darry’s arm off at the elbow and killed the horse beneath him too . Gladden Wylde died there with him, and Lord Mallery was ridden down and drowned . Thoros drew a foot of lance from his chest that night, and poured boiling wine into the hole it left . The Mountain’s men were only the van of Lord Tywin’s host .
Lord Tywin was the Hand of the King . We were still king’s men, he said, and these were the king's people the lions were savaging . For every man we lost, two showed up to take his place .
Jack-Be-Lucky blew two short blasts and two long ones on his hunting horn . Arya was sucking the last bit of meat off a wing when one of the villagers turned to Lem Lemoncloak and said, “They’d do better looking in Riverrun. Down in the deepest dungeons, where it’s nice and damp.” The Kingslayer. “No,” another villager said. “Could that be true?” Tom o’ Sevens said 
The brothers of the Kingswood, they were an outlaw band . The forest was their castle, but they roamed across the land . Arya listened to the singing for a time, then closed her eyes and drifted off to sleep .
The next morning they left the road to cut across the fields . The wind was gusting, sending dry brown leaves swirling around the hooves of their horses . Arya pulled her hood forward to keep it out of her eyes . “We’re going the wrong way!” Gendry groaned .
Lord Beric Dondarrion was killed by Vargo Hoat and before that by Ser Amory Lorch . Arya took a breath to still her soul. Calm as still water. She glanced at the outlaws on their horses, and turned her horse’s head . Right between Greenbeard and Jack-Be-Lucky she flew, and caught one glimpse of Gendry’s startled face .
Arya dashed across brown weedy fields, through waist-high grass and piles of dry leaves that flurried and flew when her horse galloped past . A dry ditch ran along one side of the field, but she leapt it without breaking stride . She leapt a rotten log and swung wide around a monstrous deadfall, jagged with broken branches .
A stream barred her way, through water choked with wet brown leaves . Some clung to her horse’s legs as they climbed the other side . The undergrowth was thicker here, the ground so full of roots and rocks that she had to slow .
Old Hullen had fathered no other sons that Arya could remember . He had an army all his own, and many a great lord to bend the knee . We could have taken the little boat and sailed it up to Riverrun .
Sam had lost the sword on the Fist, but the scabbard still weighed down the belt . The dragonglass dagger Jon gave him and the steel one he cut his meat with . He had tried belting it above his belly once, but then it came almost to his armpits . When he looked down he could see them stumbling through the snow .
Black Bernarr had broken his ankle three days past, or maybe four, or... he did not know how long it had been, truly. It felt more like he was falling down than walking, falling endlessly but never hitting the ground, just falling forward and forward . I have to stop, it hurts too much. I’m so cold and tired, I need to sleep, just a little sleep beside a fire, and a bite to eat that isn’t frozen. But if he stopped
He had been cold so long he was forgetting what it was like to feel warm . He wore three pairs of hose, two layers of smallclothes beneath a double lambswool tunic, and over that thick quilted coat that padded him against the cold steel of his chainmail . Heavy fur mitts covered his hands over thin wool-and-leather gloves, a scarf was wrapped snugly about the lower half of his face, and a tight-fitting fleece-line
Sam was weak, and fat, so very fat, he could hardly bear his own weight . It felt as though it was rubbing his shoulders raw, despite the layers of cloth and quilt between the steel and skin . He took another step. The crust was broken where he set his feet, otherwise he did not think he would have moved at all .
Maslyn had stumbled backward, dropping his sword, pleading, yielding, even yanking off his thick black glove and thrusting it up before him as if it were a gauntlet . He was still shrieking for quarter as the wight lifted him in the air by the throat and near ripped the head off him . With each prayer he took another step, dragging his legs through the snow.
Sam tripped and fell heavily to one knee, so hard he bit his tongue . The mail was too heavy, and he was too weak, and too tired . I won’t be the first to die, they can’t say I was. Hundreds had died on the Fist .
Mormont’s own raven had bobbed its head up and down and croaked, "Sorry, sorry, sorry" Sam had written out the messages ahead of time, short messages and simple, telling of an attack on the Fist of the First Men . He had tucked them away safe in his parchment pouch, hoping he would never need to send them .
Sam had never seen so much fear on a man’s face as he saw on Chett’s . When he opened his eyes snow was falling on the camp and the black brothers were all grabbing bows and spears and running toward the ringwall . “Help me get the birds off,” he pleaded, but the other steward had turned and run off, dagger in hand. He has the dogs to care for, Sam remembered.
The Lord Commander said I wasn’t to rush to the ringwall, but he said I shouldn’t come running to him either . Sam could see nothing beyond three yards, not even the torches burning along the low stone wall that ringed the crown of the hill . The horn blew thrice long, three long blasts means Others . Awkwardly he drew his sword, and plodded heavily through the snow holding it .
The men of the Night’s Watch stood behind their torches, waiting with arrows pulled back to their ears . A ragged cheer went up from the men along the ringwall, but it died quickly . Sam had been backing away by then, shaking like the last leaf on the tree when the wind kicks up .
Lord Randyll, his father, had always said so, and he had been right . He had never been worthy, so his father had sent him away to the Wall . His brother Dickon would inherit the Tarly lands and castle and the greatsword Heartsbane .
The Lord Commander looked huge in fur and mail . He turned his horse and trotted around the ring, shouting, “Fire! Give them fire!” Sam did not need to be told twice . It took him longer than it should have to light his little fire, to warm the frozen ink .
A dozen mounted brothers pounded past him toward the east wall, burning brands streaming flames in each rider’s hand . One of the Shadow Tower men came staggering out of the darkness to fall at Sam’s feet . He crawled within a foot of the fire before he died . “Go away,” he said, his words frosting in the cold air .
“Get up.” Grenn’s thick brown beard was frozen all around his mouth . It made him look like some old man . “You’ll freeze, or the Others will get you. Sam, get up!” grenn replied .
Grenn kicked him, a solid thump that cracked the crust of snow around his boot and sent it flying everywhere . Sam fell over sideways, curling up into a tight ball to protect himself from the kicks . He hardly felt them through all his wool and leather and mail, but even so, they hurt .
Sam knew a hundred songs, but when he tried to think of one he couldn’t . He sobbed again and said, “I did know some, but now I don’t.” “Yes you do,” said Grenn . “Think about your ravens, then.” “They were never mine.” “I saved food for it and everything.” He shook his head .
Sam saw two ravens perched on a rock and ran after them, but the birds flapped off lazily through the swirling snow, in opposite directions . He chased one, his breath puffing out his nose in thick white clouds, stumbled, and found himself ten feet from the ringwall . After that, he remembered the dead coming over the stones with arrows in their faces and through their throats .
Thoren Smallwood screamed at the Old Bear as he fought to control his horse . He stood in his stirrups, his black cloak snapping in the wind, the fire shining off his armor . “I’ll send reserves...” Mormont had to bellow at the top of his lungs to be heard over the horns .
Sam had always been too frightened to jump a horse before, but when the low stone wall loomed up before him he knew he had no choice . The rider to his right came crashing down in a tangle of steel and leather and screaming horseflesh, and then the wights were swarming over him and the wedge was closing up . They plunged down the hillside at a run, through clutching black hands and burning blue eyes and blowing snow
Dywen had led down five packhorses, heavy laden with food and oil and torches . The Old Bear made them redistribute the loads, so the loss of any one horse would not be such a catastrophe . But before an hour was gone he had begun to struggle, and to lag... They were lagging now as well .
Small Paul shivered violently as he lay Sam gently in the snow . The cold was so bitter that Sam felt naked . There was only the one Grenn carried, the flames rising from it like pale orange silks . They were all alone, without food or friends or fire .
The Other’s sword gleamed with a faint blue glow . It moved toward Grenn, lightning quick, slashing . The head of the torch tumbled sideways to vanish beneath a deep drift of snow . Small Paul charged in with his axe .
He giggled hysterically, wondering if they would make a wight of him . He was stumbling forward, falling more than running, really, closing his eyes and shoving the dagger blindly out before him with both hands . When he opened his eyes the Other’s armor was running down its legs in rivulets as pale blue blood hissed and steamed around the black dragonglass dagger in its throat .
Tyrion Lord Tywin’s chain of hands made a golden glitter against the deep wine velvet of his tunic . Tyrion had claimed Pycelle’s old place at the foot, propped up by cushions so he could gaze down the length of the table . He greeted each in turn, spoke a quiet word to Varys, kissed the High Septon’s ring and Cersei’s cheek .
Lord Mace Tyrell, a heavy, robust man with curling brown hair and a spade-shaped beard . Paxter Redwyne of the Arbor, stoop-shouldered and thin, his bald head fringed by tufts of orange hair . The game changed while I lay rotting in my bed, and no one will tell me the rules . Tell it to the people of this city, Tyrion thought bitterly .
Cersei had made shameless use of their cousin Lancel, both in and out of bed . She no doubt hoped Lancel would carry to his grave now that Father was here and she no longer had need of him . To look at her today, you would never suspect she was capable of such ruthlessness.
Ser Daven is reforming the remnants of his late father’s army at Lannisport . “You are certain Lord Stark means to go north?” Lord Rowan asked . Tyrion had to bite his tongue at that .
King Balon’s longships command the sunset sea, and are well placed to menace Lannisport, Fair Isle, and even Highgarden, should we provoke him . Lord Tywin’s face gave no hint as to his feelings .
Tyrion pushed off cushions, bristling, but his father spoke before lashing back . “I have other tasks in mind for Tyrion. I believe Lord Petyr may hold the key to the Eyrie,” said the Lord of Highgarden .
Tyrion studied the slender man with the pointed beard and irreverent grey-green eyes . The title makes this match possible, as he’s known all along .
Lord Tywin turned back to Littlefinger . "You are admirably suited to the task, I believe." "You will miss the king’s wedding," said Mace Tyrell .
Greyjoy demands half the kingdom as the price of alliance, but what will he do to earn it? Fight the Starks? He is doing that already. The best thing to do about our lord of Pyke is nothing, in my view . The High Septon spoke of the preparations being made at the Great Sept of Baelor .
Dorne had become part of the Seven Kingdoms... until the Dornish prince they called the Red Viper had crippled the young heir of Highgarden in a tourney . Lord Tywin watched the faces of the Lords Tyrell, Redwyne, and Rowan, wondering if any of the three would be bold enough to say, “Prince Doran comes at my son’s invitation, but to claim his seat on this council .
Tyrion eyed Mace Tyrell’s broad belly and thought, He has a prodigious appetite . Brightwater Keep and all its lands and incomes were granted to those who had proved more loyal . Highgarden reaped the richest harvest .
Lesser tracts were granted to Lord Rowan, and set aside for Lord Tarly, Lady Oakheart, Lord Hightower, and other worthies not present . Cersei lost patience. "It’s swords Joff needs, not toasts," she snapped . Ser Kevan consulted his papers .
“Dragons and krakens do not interest me, regardless of the number of their heads,” said Lord Tywin . “Some of the gold cloaks who deserted during the battle have drifted back to barracks, thinking to take up duty once again,” Ser Addam said .
King Robb and King Balon both claim the north . Let them defend it, if they can, this Mance Rayder might even prove a useful ally . Lord Tywin looked to his brother as the others rose to leave .
Lord Tywin slammed his hand down on the table . “Littlefinger is a liar—” “—and black as well,” said the raven of the crow .
“You must have a new husband in your bed, to father children on you,” Lord Tywin said . “You are my daughter, and will do as I command,” Tyrion said calmly .
Ser Loras has taken the white and Ser Garlan is wed to one of the Fossoways . Cersei pitied poor Willas Tyrell, and did not know whether he wanted to laugh at his sister or weep for her . "The Tyrell heir would be my choice," Lord Tywin concluded .
The unfortunate Willas Tyrell was like to contract a sudden fatal case of sword-through-bowels . Tyrion’s mouth twisted, and the noise emerged that was half laugh and half snarl . A wife might be the very thing he needed, it would give him a place in the world apart from Joffrey’s court .
“Why, do you plan to mistreat her?” his father sounded more curious than concerned . “The girl’s happiness is not my purpose, nor should it be yours,” his father said .
Lord Tywin's look was scornful . "Send her to Riverrun and her mother will match her with a Blackwood or a Mallister to shore up her son’s alliances along the Trident" "The man who weds Sansa Stark can claim Winterfell in her name," his uncle Kevan put in .
Lord Tywin stooped so low that to suggest you might take the Florent girl Robert deflowered in his brother’s wedding bed, but her father preferred to give her to one of his own household knights . The Stark girl is young, nubile, tractable, of the highest birth, and still a maid.
Lord Tywin was unconcerned . The Young Wolf has taken Gawen Westerling’s eldest daughter to wife .
The Westerlings always did have more honor than sense . Lady Sybell’s grandfather was a trader in saffron and pepper, almost as lowborn as that smuggler Stannis keeps . She’s long dead, to be sure. And Jeyne seemed a sweet child .
Lord Tywin had extinguished the proud Reynes of Castamere and the ancient Tarbecks of Tarbeck Hall root and branch when he was half a boy . But once he heard the song, Lord Farman gave no further trouble . The Westerlings stood to lose everything here; their lands, their castle, their very lives . A Lannister always pays his debts .
The greatest fools are ofttimes more clever than the men who laugh at them . Catelyn They carried the corpses in upon their shoulders and laid them beneath the dais . Grey Wind smells the blood, she thought, through night and rain .
Robb had donned his crown before coming to the hall, and the bronze shone darkly in the torchlight . Shadows hid his eyes as he looked upon the dead . Does he see Bran and Rickon as well? She might have wept, but there were no tears left in her .
Two of the Greatjon’s men were wounded, and three of their prisoners . Only the fact that some had spears and others empty scabbards served to set them apart . The north is hard and cold, and has no mercy, Ned told her when she first came to Winterfell a thousand years ago .
“I saw your sons die, that night in the Whispering Wood,” Robb told Lord Karstark . “Tion Frey did not kill Torrhen. Willem Lannister did not slay Eddard. How then can you call this vengeance? This was folly, and bloody murder. Your sons died honorably on a battlefield, with swords in their hands.” “The Kingslayer cut them down. These two were of his ilk. Only blood can
Lord Umber spit out a broken tooth before he forgives him . The Greatjon snatched a spear from the man beside him and jerked it to his shoulder . “Let me sprink him, sire. Let me open his belly so we can see the color of his guts.” The Blackfish entered with water running from his cloak and helm .
Robb turned away as the Greatjon’s men closed upon the prisoners . Outside the thunder crashed and boomed, so loud it sounded as if the castle were coming down about their ears . It was dark within the audience chamber, but at least the sound of the thunder was muffled by another thickness of wall . “All the fighting men,” Ser Brynden replied .
Gods know what the Karstark foot with Roose Bolton will do when they hear I’ve executed their liege for a traitor . Bolton must be warned if Bolton’s liege is executed . “No word of this must leave Riverrun,” Edmure said .
"I am about to kill his father, he’s not like to thank me," Robb shook his head . "He might. There are sons who hate their fathers, and in a stroke you will make him Lord of Karhold," Edmure Tully said . Poor Delp had only just recovered from the wound Ser Jaime gave him .
"What hope... We’ve had naught from Ser Rodrik in the north, no response from Walder Frey to our new offer, only silence from the Eyrie" "I will not believe that none of the birds have reached her," Catelyn realized . "Lysa was never brave. When we were girls together, she would run and hide whenever she’d done something wrong," Robb said .
Lord Rickard Karstark fought at my side in half a dozen battles . Tion Frey and Willem Lannister were my enemies . But now I have to kill my dead friends’ father for their sakes, said Edmure .
River lords and northmen stood amongst the trees to see the end of the night’s dark dance . Edmure had given commands, and a headsman’s block had been set up before the heart tree . Rain and leaves fell all around them as the Greatjon’s men led Lord Rickard Karstark through the press .
The Karstarks traced their descent to Karlon Stark, a younger son of Winterfell . The castle he built had been named Karl’s Hold, but that soon became Karhold . “Old gods or new, it makes no matter,” Lord Rickard said again .
The Blackfish assembled a hundred men and rode out after Karstarks . Catelyn retreated to her father’s solar, to sit beside Lord Hoster’s bed . “His last strength is going, though still he tries to fight,” she said .
Lord Tywin sends a man to die, but all he does is give the command . "I know. I told him, he should use a headsman," said Catelyn . Queen Jeyne wet her lips. "Robb has not eaten all day."
Jeyne, child, you have wed the north, as I did... and the winters will come. This very night, perhaps. Be there when he does. That is all I can tell you.” The young queen listened raptly. “I will,” she said when Catelyn was done .
Jaime Two days’ ride to either side of the kingsroad, they passed through a wide swath of destruction, miles of blackened fields and orchards . The bridges were burnt as well, and the streams swollen by autumn rains, so they had to range along the banks in search of fords.
“Be quiet,” the wench said, with a look that suggested she would love to leave him floating in the pool among the corpses . “If you won’t be quiet, you leave me no choice but to gag you, Kingslayer.” “Brienne! My name is Brienne!” He laughed . Jaime and Ser Cleos followed her out of the ashes of Maidenpool .
The dragons had spread their tale of incest all over the Seven Kingdoms . It would play havoc with Joffrey’s claim to the crown, to be sure, but in end it had been swords that had won the Iron Throne for Robert . We could marry him to Myrcella, once we’ve sent Sansa Stark back to her mother .
Jaime heard a soft thrum from behind, as if a dozen birds had taken flight at once . The gelding screamed and reared as an arrow took him in the rump . He saw Ser Cleos lurch from the saddle, twisting as his foot caught in stirrup .
Brienne knelt and held his hand, but it was the ground that had done for him . Cleos had an arrow through his right arm and a second in his chest . The top of his head was matted with blood and mushy to the touch, pieces of broken bone moving under the pressure of his hand .
Jaime was tired. Tired of her suspicions, tired of her insults . Ignoring her protests, he grasped the hilt of his cousin’s longsword with both hands .
He sprang to his feet and drove at her, the longsword alive in his hands . He whirled the blade back up above his head and flew at her again, chains rattling .
He pinned her against an oak, cursed as she slipped away, followed her through a shallow brook half-choked with fallen leaves . Steel rang, steel sang, steel screamed and sparked and scraped, and the woman started grunting like a sow at every crash . It was as if she had an iron cage around her that stopped every blow .
Jaime's skills had gone to rust and rot in that bloody dungeon . His eyes closed, his shoulders were going numb from the jarring they’d taken . He knew he was not swinging it as quickly as he’d done earlier, nor raising it as high . The realization chilled him. Robert had been stronger than him, to be sure .
He managed to jerk her dagger from its sheath, but before he could plunge it into her belly she caught his wrist and slammed his hands back on a rock so hard he thought she’d wrenched an arm from its socket . “Yield!” She shoved his head down, held it under, pulled it up, and he was kicking uselessly, fighting to breathe .
Swarthy Dornishmen and blond Lyseni, hairy Ibbenese, coal-black Summer Islanders in feathered cloaks. He knew them. The Brave Companions. Brienne found her voice. “We’ll take that for a start, m’lady.” “Then we’ll have your cunt,” said the noseless man. “I have a hundred stags—” A cadaverous man in a
Urswyck used dogs to hound his prey and put fear in their hearts . Jaime gave no sign of his discomfiture, but only smiled . “I’ll be sure and remember that, when I see him.” Harrenhal .
Urswyck was unhappy with the comment . At his signal, two Mummers grasped Jaime by the arms . Rorge hit him again, driving the air from his lungs . Brienne dove for her sword beneath the waters of the brook .
“I hope you’re pleased, wench,” Jaime whispered at Brienne . “When we make camp for the night, you’ll be raped, and more than once,” he warned her. “If I were a woman, I’d make them kill me. But I’m not.” Jaime kicked their horse to a trot .
Jaime had been looking forward to hanging the wretch while his pockets bulged with gold . “Leave me to deal with my father. I’ll get you a knighthood.” “Ser Urswyck,” the man said .
Tarth is called the Sapphire Isle for the blue of its waters . The sooner they know how little you’re worth in ransom, the sooner the rapes begin. Every man here will mount you, but what do you care? Just close your eyes, open your legs, and pretend they’re all Lord Renly.
Rorge dragged Jaime off the horse and began to kick her . It would not have been hard for him to grasp one of their sword hilts as they manhandled him . He might cut down two, but in the end he would die for it .
Arya The small square keep was half a ruin, and so too the great grey knight who lived there . He was so old he did not understand their questions . The maester who cared for him was a young man, thankfully .
Lem's broken nose was not so red or swollen as it had been . “His lordship’s a hard man to kill, he is.” “We shall,” said Greenbeard . The next morning, Gendry wondered if this was the bridge the old man had fought over .
Jack-Be-Lucky unslung his horn and blew a signal, a different one than before . The sounds had scarcely died away when rope ladders unrolled from trees . They climbed to a hidden village in the upper branches and were taken to the Lady of the Leaves . "We cannot stay here much longer, with autumn on us," she told them .
The next night they found shelter beneath the scorched shell of a sept in a burned village called Sallydance . Only shards remained of its windows of leaded glass, and the aged septon who greeted them said the looters had even made off with the Mother’s expensive robes . “Whose work was this?” said Lem Lemoncloak. “Northmen, they were. Savages who worship trees. They wanted the Kingslayer, they said.” Arya heard
Tom Sevenstrings sang a silly song about Big Belly Ben and the High Septon’s goose . Arya was willing to make a man of him, is it his fault he drank too much to do the deed? "You need a lighter bow, milady," he said .
Arya and Gendry walked around the hill to count them . There were thirty-one, some so wide that she could have used them for a bed . High Heart had been sacred to the children of the forest, Tom Sevenstrings told her .
"The old gods stir and will not let me sleep," she heard the woman say . “I dreamt I saw a shadow with a burning heart butchering a golden stag, aye. I dreamt of a man without a face, waiting on a bridge that swayed and swung. On his shoulder perched a drowned crow with seaweed hanging from his wings. I had a dream myself last night. I was kissing this
Arya asked Tom Sevenstrings if the children of the forest still dwelled on High Heart . “Did she like the looks of you?” He asked doubtfully . He shook his head at that, but Harwin gave her an answer .
The Mountain lost half his men at the Stone Mill, we hear . Might be this Tickler’s floating down the Red Fork even now, with fish biting at his face . He gave her shoulder a reassuring pat .
Lady Smallwood's maidservants scrubbed her so hard it felt like they were flaying her themselves . Anguy often rode beside her; he was closer to her in age than any of them but Gendry, and he told her droll tales of the Dornish Marches . She became even more wroth when she let slip that Arya was highborn .
Lady Smallwood insisted she dress herself in girl’s things, brown woolen stockings and a light linen shift . "My great-aunt is a septa at a motherhouse in Oldtown," she said as the women laced the gown up Arya’s back .
Supper was served in the hall by the time Arya was all washed and combed and dressed . The meal was plain but filling; mutton and mushrooms, brown bread, pease pudding, and baked apples with yellow cheese . When the food had been cleared and the servants sent away, Greenbeard lowered his voice to ask if her ladyship had word of the lightning lord.
"Did his lordship say where he was bound, milady?" asked Harwin . "You’d best know, I’ve had less pleasant callers as well." Lady Smallwood gave him a scornful look .
Arya stalked away angry, and would have slammed the door if it hadn’t been so heavy . The gates of the little castle were closed and barred . She had promised Harwin that she would not try and run away again .
The Smallwood forge had not been used in some time, though the smith had hung his tools neatly on the wall . Gendry lit a candle and set it on the anvil while he took down a pair of tongs . “He isn’t very priestly, is he?” Gendry admitted .
The wildfire ruins the steel. My master sold Thoros a new sword after every tourney. Every time they would have a fight about the price.” Gendry put the hammer down and looked at her . “You look different now. Like a proper little girl.” “You don’t. You stink.” Arya shoved him back against the anvil .
Lem Lemoncloak gave Gendry a clout alongside the head . "You want to fight, fight with me! She’s a girl, and half your age! You keep your hands off o’ her, you hear me?" He said .
In the center of the Plaza of Pride stood a monstrous harpy made of hammered bronze . Twenty feet tall she reared. She had a woman’s face, with gilded hair, ivory eyes, and pointed ivory teeth . But in place of arms she had the wings of a bat or a dragon, her legs were the legs of an eagle .
Kraznys’s High Valyrian was twisted and thickened by the characteristic growl of Ghis . Dany looked blankly at the slave girl, as if wondering what he might have said . It had been Ser Jorah’s suggestion that she speak only Dothraki and the Common Tongue while in Astapor .
Kraznys mo Nakloz smelled as if he’d bathed in raspberries . She could see them through the thin sea-green silk of the gold-fringed tokar he wound about his body and over one shoulder . "All the world knows that the Unsullied are masters of spear and shield and shortsword," Dany complained .
"They are chosen young, for size and speed and strength," the slave tells her . The training is most rigorous, Your Grace . Only one boy in three survives it. This is well known .
"Nowhere between the seas will you ever find any more obedient," said Arstan . Kraznys mo Nakloz showed his big white teeth when that was rendered back to him . "They prefer pigs and cows, your worship," he said .
"Whole men are stronger than eunuchs, I have always heard," says Kraznys mo Nakloz . "A bull is strong as well, but bulls die every day in the fighting pits," says Dany . “Even the bravest men fear death and maiming," says Arstan .
Dany laid a hand on Kraznys’s arm before he could raise the whip again . “The Good Master says that was not courage, Your Grace.” “He begs you attend this carefully, My Grace.” The eunuch knelt, unsheathed the blade, and offered it up hilt first .
"Tell the cow to stop her bleating," said Kraznys . The nipple hung by a thread of skin, leaving behind a round red eye copiously weeping blood . "This one is pleased to have served you," she demanded through the scribe .
“Men, yes, but not Unsullied. Plunder interests them no more than rape. They own nothing but their weapons.” “It is so, Your Grace.” Kraznys stopped in front of a Ghiscari who might have been his taller fitter brother . “This one does not recall, your worship. Blue Toad, perhaps. Or Blue Worm.”
"Tell her all their names are such," Kraznys commanded the girl . "The dogs are harder for them, it must be said. We give each boy a puppy on the day that he is cut. It makes for a good strong lesson, we find."
"The Good Master has said that these eunuchs cannot be tempted with coin or flesh," Dany said . "They would kill him out of hand and bring her his head, tell her that," Kraznys answered . “I know of Valyrian steel, folded over and over and hammered for years on end, until they are stronger and more resilient than any metal on earth.”
“You must set your own officers over them. We train them to obey, not to think.” “And their gear?” “Sword, shield, spear, sandals, and quilted tunic are included,” said Kraznys . “You have lived long in the world, Whitebeard. Now that you have seen them, what do you say?” She asked .
Dany turned back to Kraznys mo Nakloz and his slave girl . "The corsair wanted only a hundred, your worship," Dany heard the slave girl say . He poked her with the end of the whip .
“I will feed her jellied dog brains, and a fine rich stew of red octopus and unborn puppy,” the slaver growled . “Tell her I will lick honey off her breasts, or allow her to lick Honey off mine if she prefers.” “Astapor is most beautiful at dusk, Your Grace,” said the slave girl. “I have my own bear on Balerion,” she told the translator .
Astapor was a queer city, even to the eyes of one who had walked within the House of Dust and bathed in the Womb of the World beneath the Mother of Mountains . All the streets were made of the same red brick that had paved the plaza . The brick dust stung the eyes worse than sand .
a naked boy with peeling skin sat in a dry brick gutter, picking his nose and staring sullenly at some ants in the street . The copper disks sewn to their cloaks of yellow silk glittered like so many suns, but their tunics were embroidered linen . Below the waist they wore sandals and pleated linen skirts .
Two Astapori rode behind them on white asses, a man in a red silk tokar and a veiled woman in sheer blue linen decorated with flakes of lapis lazuli . In her red-black hair she wore an ivory comb . The man laughed as he whispered to her, paying no more mind to Dany than to his slaves, nor the overseer with his twisted five-thonged lash .
A man cannot sup from the pentos bowl all his life and stay a man . "Better to come a beggar than a slaver," Arstan said . Arstan's nostrils flared. "Do you know what it is like to be sold, squire?" Whitebeard smiled .
Dany slid a hand down between her legs, and gasped when she felt how wet she was . She moved her fingers back and forth between her lower lips, slowly so as not to wake Irri beside her, until she found one sweet spot and lingered there, touching herself lightly, timidly at first and then faster . It was no more than a few moments until her legs twisted and her breasts heaved and her whole body shuddered .
Drogo I want, my sun-and-stars, Dany reminded herself . She thought these feelings had died with him there in the red waste . He presumed too much, and I permitted it . It must never happen again .
Ser Jorah Mormont walked her aft. “How many men do they have for sale?” “None.” Was it Mormont she was angry with, or this city with its sullen heat, its stinks and sweats and crumbling bricks? Shall I buy eight thousand brick eunuchs with dead eyes that never move, who kill suckling babes for the sake of a spiked hat and strangle their own dogs? “I have heard all I care
Dany sank into Groleo’s great leather chair, giggling . She showed Dany the marks of his teeth on her hand . "I’m sorry he hurt you. Dragons are not meant to be locked up in a small ship’s cabin," she said .
“I know,” Dany said. “My khaleesi is sad?” Dany admitted. “Sad and lost.” “Should I pleasure the khalesi?” She stepped away from her. “I don’t want that,” she insisted. “Leave me now. I want to be alone.” She turned away sharply. “Might I speak frankly?”
Aegon the Dragon stepped ashore in Westeros, the kings of Vale and Rock and Reach did not rush to hand him their crowns . If you mean to sit his Iron Throne, you must win it as he did, with steel and dragonfire . "The blood of my enemies I will shed gladly. The blood of innocents is another matter. Eight thousand Unsullied they would offer me," said Jorah Mormont .
Astapor’s brave defenders are so much chaff, it’s true . On feastdays they fight mock wars in the pits to demonstrate what brilliant commanders they are . The slavers would turn out the whole garrison in the city’s defense .
"Who would attack Astapor?" Ser Jorah asked . "Meereen and Yunkai are rivals but not enemies, the Doom destroyed Valyria" Dany shrugged him off. "I remember, Daenerys." "Your Grace"
Rhaegar lost on the Trident. He lost the battle, lost the war, he lost the kingdom and lost his life . His blood swirled downriver with the rubies from his breastplate . Robert the Usurper rode over his corpse to steal the Iron Throne .
Osha pictured her safe in White Harbor with Rickon and Shaggydog, eating eels and fish and hot crab pie with fat Lord Manderly . But Bran’s life had turned into endless chilly days on Hodor’s back, riding his basket up and down the slopes of mountains . “If ice can burn,” said Jojen in his solemn voice, “then love and hate can mate. Mountain or marsh, it makes no matter. The land is one.” “I
Meera Reed was a fine huntress, and even better at taking fish from streams with her three-pronged frog spear . They had Summer hunting for them as well, but it was harder, and some nights even Summer found no prey . But Jojen remained stubbornly determined to stay well away from roads .
The Umbers are mostly east of the kingsroad, but they graze their sheep in the high meadows in summer . There are Wulls west of the mountains along the Bay of Ice, Harclays back behind us in the hills, and Knotts and Liddles and Norreys . Old Nan once said that it was her blood in him that made Bran such a fool for climbing before his fall .
Summer found it for them, sniffing out a shallow cave behind the greygreen branches of a towering sentinel tree . When Hodor ducked beneath the stony overhang, Bran saw the orange glow of fire farther back and realized they were not alone . The Liddles bore pinecones on the white half of their green-and-white shields .
The Old Bear took the Watch into the haunted woods, and all that come back was his ravens . “Some nights I dream of me mother that I buried nine years past,” the man said . The direwolf did not feel the damp as people did, and the night was calling him .
A dozen oatcakes folded up neatly in a green and white cloth . Some had pinenuts baked in them and some had blackberries . One day there would be Starks in Winterfell again, he told himself .
Old Nan was his grandmother’s grandmother or something . He didn’t remember seeing any women dead, now that he thought back . “Some people hurt others just because they can,” said Meera .
“I haven’t. And if I have it doesn’t matter,” said Bran . “No,” said Meera. “I’ve heard that tale a hundred times, I’m sure.” “That’s true.” “Did he have green dreams like Jojen?” she said .
“I wish I could,” Bran said plaintively . “The lad knew the magics of the crannogs,” Meera said . "My prince asked for knights.” “The big people do not always treat us kindly.” “No one visits the Isle of Faces,” objected Bran.
The crannogman stayed on the isle, but when the spring broke he knew the time had come to leave . “Harrenhal!” Bran knew at once . He saw tents of many colors, bright banners cracking in the wind, and knights on barded horses .
“This isn’t going to be one of those love stories, is it?” Bran asked suspiciously . “Hodor doesn’t like those so much.” “He likes the stories where the knights fight monsters,” said Hodor agreeably.
the dragon prince sang a song so sad it made the wolf maid sniffle . When her pup brother teased her for crying she poured wine over his head . The storm lord drank down the knight of skulls and kisses in a wine-cup war .
The little crannogman thanked him, but gave no answer . He feared he would only make a fool of himself and shame his people . “You never heard this tale from your father?” asked Jojen .
The dragonknight once won a tourney as the Knight of Tears, so he could name his sister the queen of love and beauty in place of the king’s mistress . Sometimes they were famous champions in disguise, with helms concealing their faces, and shields that were either blank or bore some strange device .
The porcupine knight fell first, then the pitchfork knight, and lastly the knight of the twin towers . When his foes sought to ransom horse and armor, the Knight of the Laughing Tree spoke in a booming voice through his helm . It was a good story, Bran decided after thinking about it a moment or two .
A day would be enough if the little crannogman could walk again, even turn him into a knight . Davos The cell was warmer than any cell had a right to be . The smooth stony passages beneath the great mass of Dragonstone were always warm .
Davos was sick when they first brought him here . He was given garlic broth to drink, and milk of the poppy to take away his aches and shivers . The poppy made him sleep and while he slept they leeched him to drain off the bad blood . One day he realized that he felt stronger than he had since Black Betha shattered beneath him .
Neither man would speak to him, though he knew they were no mutes . Sometimes he heard them exchange brusque words as the watch was changing . He marked the passage of days by the meals they brought, and by the changing of the torches in the sconce outside his cell .
Lord Sunglass had been confined in the cells beneath Dragonstone for a time, as had Ser Hubard Rambton’s sons; all of them had ended on the pyre . He thought as he sat staring at the torch beyond the bars, and there she stood in shimmering scarlet with her great ruby at her throat, her red eyes gleaming as bright as the torch that bathed her . She lifted a hand toward the torch in the wall sconce 
Ser Davos was too accustomed to speaking truth to kings . "You are the mother of darkness. I saw that under Storm’s End, when you gave birth before my eyes," Melisandre sighed .
The war has been waged since time began, and all men must choose where they will stand . On one side is R’hllor, the Lord of Light, the Heart of Fire, the God of Flame and Terror . It is death we choose, or life. Darkness, or light.” She clasped the bars of his cell with her slender white hands .
"Why did you mean to kill me?" said Davos, "if you will tell me who betrayed me" Melisandre sighed. "You wrong me, onion knight. These were no fires of mine. Had I been with you, your battle would have had a different ending"
"I have seen him leading the fight against the dark, I have seen it in the flames" Azor Ahai shall be born again amidst smoke and salt to wake dragons out of stone .
Davos lowered himself to the floor of the cell and wrapped his arms about his knees . The shifting torchlight washed over him . Melisandre’s footsteps faded away, the only sound was the scrabbling of rats . It was good to learn that Salla had not sold him, but the thought of the woman spying out his secrets with her fires disquieted him more than he could say .
Porridge was tall and slender, with silvery grey hair, a pointed beard, and a long elegant face twisted in fear . “I am no traitor!” screeched the prisoner as he was unlocking the door .
Ser Axell, Porridge, and the guards had already turned to leave . “You cannot do this,” the prisoner shouted at their retreating backs . Lord Alester blinked. “Ser Davos Seaworth.” He reached down a hand to help the other man to his feet .
The Seven had no place on Dragonstone now . It had been Ser Imry Florent who led them blindly up the Blackwater Rush with all oars pulling, paying no heed to the small stone towers at the mouth of the river . "Your son and my nephew were lost, with countless other good men," his lordship said .
Lord Alester waved his hand feebly. “Lord Celtigar was captured and bent the knee. Monford Velaryon died with his ship, the red woman burned Sunglass, and Lord Bar Emmon is fifteen, fat, and feeble. That is all I meant to do. Gods be good, how can they call it treason?” Davos stood frowning .
Lord Stannis gave up his claim to the Iron Throne and retract all he said of Joffrey’s bastardy . “I vowed to do the same, for the return of Brightwater Keep and all our lands. I thought... Lord Tywin would see the sense in my proposal. He still has the Starks to deal with.
A vein throbbed in Florent’s forehead . “You are wrong, my lord. He can choose to die a king.” “No. But I am the king’s man, and I will make no peace without his leave.” Lord Alester stared at him helplessly for a long moment . Jon The last night fell black and moonless, but for once the sky was clear.
Jon Snow had never truly been a Stark, only Lord Eddard’s motherless bastard . He found Ghost atop the hill, as he thought he might . The white wolf never howled, yet something drew him to the heights all the same .
Ghost licked his face, his rough wet tongue rasping against the scabs . He nuzzled at Jon’s neck, silent as ever, his breath a hot mist . “You cannot come with me,” Jon said, cupping the wolf’s head in his hands and looking deep into those eyes .
Jon could see the Wall looming high and dark to the south, a great shadow blocking out the stars . The rough hilly ground made him think they must be somewhere between the Shadow Tower and Castle Black . For days they had been wending their way south between deep lakes that stretched like long thin fingers along the floors of narrow valleys .
Mance Rayder's mocking words rang bitter in his head . I have no choice, he’d told himself the first time, when she slipped beneath his sleeping skins . If I refuse her, she will know me for a turncloak. I am playing the part the Halfhand told me to play.
Jon Snow was still a man of the Night’s Watch, and a son of Eddard Stark . He had done what needed to be done, proved what required to be proven . His vows, her maidenhood, none of it mattered, only the heat of her .
Jon vowed to himself that it would be the same with him . It happened twice more that night, and again in the morning . The wildlings were stirring by then, and several could not help but notice what was going on beneath the pile of furs .
Mance Rayder had planned his thrust well . Within the rock, the passage descended twenty feet before it opened out onto a space as large as Winterfell’s Great Hall . The horses had been hobbled along one wall, beside a shallow pool .
"Mules are slow, but more surefooted on the ice," Jon said . "They often ride atop the Wall? Not always?" "No. One patrol in four follows the base instead, to search for cracks in the foundation ice or signs of tunneling." "Even in far Thenn we know the tale of Arson Iceaxe and his tunnel."
Lord Commander Qorgyle used to send them out every third day from Castle Black to Eastwatch-by-the-Sea . Lord Commander Mormont prefers to vary the number of patrols and the days of their departure . But sometimes the Old Bear will even send a larger force to one of the abandoned castles for a fortnight or a moon’s turn .
The Magnar claimed to be the last of the First Men, and ruled with an iron hand . Ygritte said the Thenns were savage fighters, and that their Magnar was a god to them .
There are hundreds o’ caves in these hills, and down deep they all connect . There’s even a way under your Wall. Gorne’s Way.” “Gorne,” said Jon. “There was a battle,” Ygritte recalls . “Gondel had the king to the south, the Umbers to the east, and the Watch to the north.”
Jon Snow swept the torch back and forth, so the shadows jumped and moved . "You know nothing, Jon Snow," she whispered, biting at his neck . “You sound like Old Nan, telling Bran a monster story.” She pushed away from him, and shrugged out of her rabbitskin vest .
“If you want to look you have to show. You know nothing, Jon Snow.” “I know I want you,” Ygritte said . “I love your red hair. I love your mouth, and the way you kiss me.” He kissed her there, lightly on her mound at first .
“You were a maid,” Ygritte teased . “I was a man of the Night’s Watch.” What was he now? “I am nineteen, and a spearwife, and kissed by fire.” “How could I be maiden?” “Who were he?” “A boy at a feast, five years past. He’d come trading with his brothers . But he was weak. When he came back t’ try and steal me, Longspe
Jon Snow sat up. “Ygritte, I never stole you.” “Aye, you did. You jumped down the mountain and killed Orell, and afore I could get my axe you had a knife at my throat. I thought you’d have me then, or kill me, or maybe both, but you never did.” She gave him a shy smile. “I’m not done with you, Jon Snow.” She pushed him back down on the clothes and straddled
The grotto was pitch-dark by the time they finished . The only light was the dim glow of the passage back up to the larger cavern . They were soon fumbling and bumping into each other as they tried to dress in the dark .
Dany had brought her own attendants; Irri and Jhiqui in their sandsilk trousers and painted vests . Ser Jorah stood behind her sweltering in his green surcoat with the bear of Mormont embroidered upon it . The smell of his sweat was an earthy answer to the sweet perfumes that drenched the Astapori . “Of thousands, the six centuries... and the ones still in training as well. The ones who have not earned
Dany had been told by Captain Groleo . "We cannot sell half-trained boys," one of the silver-fringe Grazdans was saying to the others . “Gold in my purse is better than gold in my future,” Dany said .
"I shall need the boys as replacements to take up the swords they drop" Dany frowned in annoyance . "This little whore is a fool, truly," said Khaznys mo Nakloz. "Your Grace," he growled, "you are not being queen now."
"Your pretty crown might buy another century," said the fat one in Valyrian . "Your crown of the three dragons" Dany waited for his words to be translated . “You must not presume to instruct me. You must not do this thing.” Mormont seized the old man roughly by an elbow .
"Tell the Good Masters I regret this interruption," said Dany to the slave girl . “Tell them I await their answer.” She knew the answer, though; she could see it in the glitter of their eyes and the smiles they tried so hard to hide . The Ghiscari lust for dragons, and the Empire had none .
The Mother of Dragons has sold her strongest child. Even the thought made her ill. Yet down in the Plaza of Pride, standing on the hot red bricks between the slavers’ pyramid and the barracks of the eunuchs, Dany turned on the old man. “I am not a child,” she told him unhappily. “Yet even queens can err. The Astapori have cheated you, Your Grace. A dragon is worth more than any army.” “
“I will keep you by my side to speak for me as you spoke for Kraznys.” “This one... I... there is no place for me to go. This... I will serve you, gladly.” “Valar morghulis,” said Missandei, in High Valyrian . “All men must die,” “Is it true they feel no pain?” “Your Grace?” “When I have won my war and claimed the throne that was my father’s, my knight
"The Unsullied make flne guards and excellent watchmen, Your Grace," said Missandei . "If I did resell them, how would I know they could not be used against me?" Dany asked pointedly. "Would they do that? Fight against me, even do me harm?"
Ser Jorah called her bloodriders to her cabin, with Aggo fitting a new string to his bow by the light of a swinging oil lamp . Aggo sat crosslegged on the deck beside him, sharpening his arakh with a whetstone . “You ought to be asleep. Tomorrow will be hot and hard, I promise you. You’ll need your strength,” Dany said .
She woke suddenly in the darkness of her cabin, still flush with triumph . She thought she could see a shadow, the faintest outline of a shape . To reach the west, you must travel south. To go forward you must go east .
Irri and Jhiqui had braided her hair and hung it with a tiny silver bell whose chime sang of the Undying of Qarth, burned in their Palace of Dust . The red brick streets of Astapor were almost crowded this morning . Slaves and servants lined the ways, while slavers and their women donned their tokars to look down from their stepped pyramids .
Ser Jorah Mormont was behind in mail and surcoat, glowering at anyone who came too near . Dany had commanded that the top be removed, so her three dragons might be chained to the platform . But Viserion’s tail lashed back and forth, and smoke rose angry from his nostrils .
Dany thought their skin was striped like the zorses of the Jogos Nhai . She rode her silver nearer and saw the raw red flesh beneath the crawling black stripes . The rebellious slaves had been peeled like a man might peel an apple .
Dany wheeled her silver about and trotted toward the center of the plaza . They stood, her stone halfmen with their hearts of brick . The ones farthest to the back were only boys, she saw, but they stood as straight and still as all the rest .
Ser Jorah barked a command, and the trade goods were brought forward . Six bales of tiger skins, three hundred bolts of fine silk, jars of pepper and curry and cardamom, an onyx mask, twelve jade monkeys, casks of ink in red and black and green, a box of rare black amethysts .
Ser Jorah and Belwas walked beside her to the litter . When she gave a yank, the black dragon raised his head, hissing, and unfolded wings of night and scarlet . Dany handed the slaver the end of Drogon’s chain, and presented her with the whip .
The Astapori yanked and tugged, but Drogon would not budge off the litter . It is time to cross the Trident, Dany thought, as she wheeled and rode her silver back . “There is a reason. A dragon is no slave,” Dany said .
A third of Astapor’s proud demon-horned warriors were fighting to stay atop their terrified mounts . One man kept his saddle long enough to draw a sword, but Jhogo’s whip coiled about his neck and cut off his shout . Aggo sat calmly notching arrows to his bowstring and spurting blood . The Unsullied did not so much as look down to watch him die .
Sansa trimmed nails and curled her auburn hair so it fell down her back in soft ringlets . Cersei’s own bedmaid trimmed her nails and brushed her hair to glowed pink . She brought a dozen of the queen’s favorite scents .
Cersei dressed Sansa in her new clothes . The smallclothes were all silk, but the gown itself was ivory samite and cloth-of-silver . It was a woman’s gown, not a little girl’s, there was no doubt .
Sansa's hand went to her throat with a slender silver chain . Dontos the Fool was not so foolish after all; he had seen the truth of it . "You are to marry my brother Tyrion," she said .
Ser Meryn Trant and Ser Osmund Kettleblack were waiting without, in the white scale armor of the Kingsguard . “Carry her if you must, but try not to tear the gown, it was very costly.” Sansa tried to run, but Cersei’s handmaid caught her before she’d gone a yard .
“If you ever loved me even a little bit, don’t make me marry your——uncle?” Tyrion Lannister stepped through the doors of the sept. “Your Grace,” he said to Joffrey. “Grant me a moment alone with Lady Sansa, if you would be so kind?” He wore a doublet of black velvet covered with golden scrollwork, thigh-high boots that added three inches to his height .
Tyrell or Lannister, it makes no matter, it’s not me they want, only my claim . “You are kind, my lord,” she said, defeated . "I know I am not the sort of husband young girls dream of, Sansa," he said softly .
As father of the realm, Sansa stood stiff as a lance as his hands came over her shoulders to fumble with the clasp of her cloak . One of them brushed her breast and lingered to give it a little squeeze . He swept her maiden’s cloaak away with a kingly flourish and a smile . It was not supposed to be this way .
Stubbornly she pressed her lips together and pretended not to notice . The queen, she thought, but it didn’t matter. They were all laughing by then, Joffrey the loudest .
Sansa wanted it to be done, and yet she dreaded its end . They would carry her up to her wedding bed, undressing her on the way and making rude jokes about the fate that awaited her between the sheets . Only after they had been bundled naked into bed would they be left alone .
Ser Kevan Lannister begged the honor of Lady Janna Fossoway . Lord and Lady Tyrell moved more sedately . Ser Garlan was brother to Margaery, to Willas .
Smiling, Sansa let the music take her, losing herself in the steps, in the sound of flute and pipes and harp . “A bride at her wedding should be more than well.” His voice was not unkind . It was Mace Tyrell opposite her, red-faced and sweaty, then Lord Merryweather, and then Prince Tommen .
A king can have other women. Whores. My father did too. One of the Aegons did too . Queen Cersei turned to her father. “Did you hear him?” Lord Tywin rose from his seat. “I believe we can dispense with the bedding. Tyrion, I am certain you did not mean to threaten the king’s royal person.”
“I did, Your Grace,” said Tyrion, “but only because I envied your royal manhood. Mine own is so small and stunted.” His face twisted into a leer . He hopped down from the dais and grabbed Sansa roughly . “Come, wife, time to smash your portcullis. I want to play come-into-the-castle” .
Sansa sat on the edge of the great curtained bed and drained half her cup in three long swallows . It made her head swim. “Would you have me undress, my lord?” “Tyrion.” He cocked his head . “You were wed before? I... I had forgotten.” “You did not forget. You never knew.” “How old are you, my lady?” she asked .
“I am your husband. You can take off your armor now.” “And my clothing?” “That too.” He waved his wine cup at her . “My lord father hascommanded me to consummate this marriage.” Her hands trembled as she began fumbling at her clothes . But somehow she managed the laces and buttons, and her cloak and gown and girdle and undersilk slid to the floor .
He was looking at her, waiting for her to say something, but all her words had withered . When he realized that she had no answer for him, Tyrion Lannister drained the last of his wine . She climbed onto the featherbed, conscious of his stare .
“My lady,” Tyrion said, “you are lovely, make no mistake, but... I cannot do this.” His smile might have been meant to be reassuring, but without a nose it only made him look more grotesque and sinister . Septa Mordane said all men are beautiful, find his beauty, try .
Lord Connington the Hand took the town with a mighty force and started searching house by house . He slew six men that day, they say. One was Myles Mooton, a knight who’d been Prince Rhaegar’s squire . But when he saw the day was lost, he flew off as fast as the griffins on his shield .
The Huntsman brought in a flock o’ sheep, and there’s plenty want to take what we got . Wolves one day, Mummers the next. Them that’s not looking for food are looking for plunder, or women to rape . “Is Lord Hoster dead, then?” “Lord Edmure?” Lem frowned .
Stoney Sept slowly seemed to come to life around them . In the market square at the town’s heart stood a fountain in the shape of a leaping trout . The crows were mostly outside the cages, splashing in the water or perched atop the bars .
Carrion crows had eaten out their eyes, yet the empty sockets seemed to follow her . The fourth man in the row stirred as she passed . There was another dead man beyond the old one, a big red-bearded man with a rotting grey bandage covering his left ear and part of his temple.
“They put eight people to the sword at Tumbler’s Falls,” he said . “They wanted the Kingslayer, but he wasn’t there so they did some rape and murder.” “That one there did the raping. Now move along.” “Ha’ mercy, boy, a swallow.” The old one slid an arm up to grasp the bars . The motion made his cage swing violently. “Water,” gasped the one with the flies in his beard .
Harwin and Gendry offered her a leg up . She planted a foot in Harwin’s cupped hands, vaulted onto Gendry’s shoulders . The fat man turned his face up and pressed his cheek to the iron . He licked the dampness off the bars .
"He hasn’t got my voice," Tom Sevenstrings said . "You leave the Bull alone, he’s a good lad," said Tansy . “If you can spare it, we won’t say no,” she said.
Arya tried to tell them that she’d been bathed twice at Acorn Hall, not a fortnight past, but the red-haired woman was having none of it . They stole all the clothes that Lady Smallwood had given her and dressed her up like one of Sansa’s dolls in linen and lace . When she looked, she saw more serving wenches than any inn could want .
Arya knew she was being mocked. “You are not.” “Well, I might be.” When the girl shrugged, her gown slipped off one shoulder . “I’m named Bella,” the girl told Gendry. “For the battle. I bet I could ring your bell, too. You want to?” She ran a hand along his arm .
Arya sipped at the cup of watered wine the red-haired woman had allowed her . It seemed to her that some of them were laughing too hard, somehow . She could only ride as far as the city gates, but she couldn’t see how far Stoney Sept was .
Arya Stark was taken aback by the fury in his voice . “I’m too bloody lowborn to be kin to m’lady high.” “Yes it is.” He sat down on the bench, cradling a cup of wine between his hands .
Arya took off linen and lace, pulled her tunic over her head, climbed up into the bed, and burrowed under the blankets . She dreamed of wolves that night, stalking through a wet wood with the smell of rain and rot and blood thick in the air .
Arya crawled from under the blankets and hopped over Lem Lemoncloak and Jack-Be-Lucky . The day was grey and overcast. There was a pack of them, great black mastiffs and lean wolfhounds and black-and-white sheepdogs . Between the inn and the fountain, a dozen riders sat astride their horses, watching the townsmen open the fat man’s cage and tug his arm until his swollen corpse spill
The noise had woken half the Peach . Gendry squeezed into the window beside Arya, and Tom stepped up behind them naked as his name day . “Where’s Greenbeard?” Tom asked him. “What’s all that bloody shouting?” Lem asked .
In the Seven Kingdoms it was said that the Wall marked the end of the world . It was true for the Thenns as well. It frightens them .
A deserter and a wildling could expect no welcome anywhere in the Seven Kingdoms . The Wall did not awe Jarl’s raiders, Jon saw . They have done this before, every man of them .
The wildlings made ready, winding thick coils of hempen rope around one shoulder and down across their chests, and lacing on queer boots of supple doeskin . The boots had spikes jutting from the toes; iron, for Jarl and two others, bronze, for some, but most often jagged bone .
It would not be the first time wildlings had scaled the Wall, not even the hundred and first . The patrols stumbled on climbers two or three times a year, and rangers came on the broken corpses of those who had fallen . In the west they would descend into the black depths of the Gorge to make their way around the Shadow Tower .
Step by step, Jarl moved higher, kicking out toeholds when there were no natural ones to be found . When he was ten feet above the sentinel, he stopped upon a narrow icy ledge, slung his axe from his belt, and drove an iron stake into a cleft . The other two teams had no happily placed trees to give them a leg up .
Stonesnake had swallowed his heart a half-dozen times that night . By the end his arms and legs had been aching and his fingers were half frozen . But the warmth of a climber’s hand might be enough to melt it . If the gods are good, a patrol will chance by and put an end to this .
Errok’s four and Grigg’s moved almost side by side, with Erro’s fifty feet below . Deerhorn axes chopped and hacked, sending showers of glittery shards cascading down onto the trees . And the men kicked, driving the spikes on their boots against the hard unyielding ice again and again and repeatedly to make one foothold .
The sun was high in the sky, and the upper third of the Wall was a crystalline blue from below . Jarl’s four and Grigg’s were all but lost in the glare, though Errok’s team was still in shadow . Instead of moving upward they were edging their way sideways at about five hundred feet, making for a chimney .
Errok and Grigg and their men grunted and heaved, pulled it up, staked it to the top, then lowered the rope again to haul up a second ladder . The Magnar shouted a brusque command in the Old Tongue, and five of his Thenns started up together .
Jon Snow slammed the heel of her hand into his chest, so hard it stung even through his layers of wool, mail, and boiled leather . “Why are you crying, then?” she kicked savagely at the ice beneath her with a heel, chopping out a chunk . Jaime His hand burned. He could still feel the fire lancing up his arm .
Tyrion had never known there could be such pain . Sometimes unbidden prayers bubbled from his lips, prayers he learned as a child . Some times he even wept, until he heard the Mummers laughing . Then he made his eyes go dry and his heart go dead, and prayed for his fever to burn away his tears .
Jaime was so thirsty he drank wine when they gave it to him, and water when that was all they offered . He quaffed it straight away, trembling, and the Brave Companions burst into laughter so loud and harsh it hurt his ears . “That wath amuthing, Kingthlayer,” Vargo Hoat said.
Jaime Lannister was a knight of the Kingsguard, he was the Kingslayer . He was cruel, treacherous, reckless, but never craven . They called him, yes; oathbreaker, liar, murderer .
The wench had the right of it. He could not die . He was waiting for him. And Tyrion, his little brother, who loved him for a lie . The Young Wolf who had beaten him in the Whispering Wood and killed his men around him, Edmure Tully .
Aerys never let me joust. He sent me away. But now I’m coming back. It was the next night when they finally came, three of the worst . Shagwell suggested that they should both go first, and take her front and rear . They will leave her a cripple too, but inside, where it does not show .
Lord Rickard cooking in his armor while his son Brandon strangled himself trying to save him . “You’re the ugliest woman I ever seen,” he told Brienne . He shouted, “SAPPHIRES,” as loudly as he could .
Urswyck and Vargo Hoat stumbled along side by side behind the Qohorik’s striped zorse . The goat screamed, spraying spittle all over Zollo . “Thee hath to be a maid, you foolth! Thee’th worth a bag of thapphireth!” He chuckled.
Jaime’s rage kept him walking. The linen that covered the stump was grey and stinking with pus . His phantom fingers screamed with every step. I am stronger than they know, he told himself . “Lord Bolton holds this castle. The Boltons skin their enemies.” Jaime remembered that much about the northman .
Soldiers, servants, and camp followers gathered to hoot at them . Vargo Hoat had sent two of his Dothraki ahead to inform Lord Bolton of their coming . They gave way as Jaime staggered past, the rope around his waist jerking and pulling at him whenever he slowed .
“I am Brienne of Tarth, daughter to Lord Selwyn the Evenstar” Ser Aenys Frey spit at her feet . “That’s for your oaths. We trusted the word of Robb Stark, and he repaid our faith with betrayal.” Now this is interesting .
Roose Bolton's silence was a hundred times more threatening than Vargo Hoat's slobbering malevolence . Jaime misliked those eyes. The Lord of the Dreadfort finally pursed his lips and said, “You have lost a hand.” “No,” said Jaime, “I have it here, hanging round my neck.” “I will thend it to hith lord father. I will tell him he muth pay one hundred thouthand
“I am displeased. By that, and this of Ser Jaime’s hand,” said Vargo Hoat . The goat might not be as clever as some, but he could count that high at least .
"You shall have no need of armor here, my lady," Lord Bolton tells her . "In Harrenhal, you will see to to Ser Jaime at once" Qyburn sucked at the wound with a finger, and wrinkled his nose at the gush of pus .
Qyburn cleaned the stump while Jaime gulped down strongwine, spilling it all over himself in the process . The smell of wine in his sodden beard helped disguise the stench of pus . When the time came to pare away the rotten flesh, he lost consciousness .
Jaime saw green flames reaching up into the sky higher than the tallest towers . Qyburn soaked a cloth in warm water and dabbed at the crust of dried blood . The eyelid was swollen, but Jaime found he could force it open halfway .
Ser Kevan Lannister had not been himself since the raven had come from Riverrun with word of his son’s murder . Lord Tywin had always relied on his brother, but now he had no choice but to turn again to his dwarf son .
King’s Landing was the realm’s principal harbor, rivaled only by Oldtown . The river had to be reopened, and the sooner the better . It was almost enough to make him miss Littlefinger, who had sailed north a fortnight past .
Sansa Stark remained a maiden, and half the castle seemed to know it . He’d risked his skin to avoid the bedding ritual, but that hope had been dashed quick enough . They were laughing at him all the same .
Tyrion had commanded Sansa to wear a sleeping shift as well . I want Winterfell, yes, but I want her as well, child or woman or whatever she is . He wanted her to come to me willingly, to bring me joys and sorrows and her lust . They met again in the eunuch’s chambers .
Muddy Way was crowded, but soldiers and townfolk alike made way for the Imp and his escort . Tyrion pulled a big fistful of coppers from his purse and tossed them in the air . The lucky ones might be able to buy a heel of stale bread tonight .
Bronn led him through a curving wynd, through an alley, under a broken archway . They cut through the rubble where a house had burned and walked their horses up a shallow flight of stone steps . Tyrion Lannister had no such problem, but the front room was empty .
Symon sighed as he rode through the streets of Duskendale . "You have never heard me sing. Pray listen a moment," he said . Symon said he would have been honored to sing at your feast .
Tyrion slid his fingers from his cloak, empty . “That’s not a song I would care to hear again. Ever.” “A pity. Still, each man has his song, as my old master used to say when he was teaching me to play. Others might like my tune better. The queen, perhaps. Or your lord father.” He could not put it much plainer than that.
Galyeon of Cuy, Bethany Fair-fingers, Aemon Costayne, Alaric of Eysen, Hamish the Harper, Collio Quaynis, and Orland of Oldtown will compete for a gilded lute with silver strings... yet unaccountably, no invitation has been forthcoming for one who is master of them all.
“I shall sing the night of King Joffrey’s wedding,” Tyrion said . “You have my word as a Lannister, Bronn will call upon you soon.” “Very good, my lord.” Tyrion took up his woodharp again .
Lord Tywin always had teeth; his father never sent for him just to share a meal or a cup of wine, that was for certain . “Garnets lack the fire.” Tyrion cleared his throat . A bundle of oilcloth lay on the table between them .
Valyrian steel blades were scarce and costly, yet thousands remained in the world . The old Kings of the Rock had owned such a weapon, but the greatsword Brightroar had been lost when the second King Tommen carried it back to Valyria on his fool’s quest . Thrice at least Tywin had offered to buy Valyrid longswords from impoverished lesser houses, but his advances had always been firmly rebuffed.
Valyrian steel is stubborn. These old swords remember, it is said, and they do not change easily . A crimson sword might flash prettily in the sun, but they make this blade unique . The armorer bent over the table and unfolded the bundle of oilcloth .
Lord Tywin placed Jaime’s sword back on the table beside Joffrey’s . He asked if Robb Stark would let his brother live long enough to wield it . “I shall, my lord. You are most generous.” The man folded the swords up in the oilcloth, tucked the bundle under one arm .
Three-quarters of the quays need repair, and some may have to be rebuilt . The entire fish market is gone, and both the River Gate and King’s Gate are splintered from the battering Stannis gave them and should be replaced . Father, find a privy and get busy, he wanted to say, but he knew better .
"I am pleased you know of it. Now perhaps you ought to try and know the woman who shares it with you," Tyrion demanded . "Sansa is too young," he demanded. "I will find your money"
Moon Boy is more like to annul my marriage than he is . “Perhaps I should have married Sansa Stark to Moon Boy. He might have known what to do with her.” Tyrion’s hands clenched on the arms of his chair .
Lord Tywin waved Grand Maester Pycelle to a seat . “Tyrion may stay.” Oooooh, may I? He rubbed his nose, and waited . He wrote that Lord Mormont has sent word of wildlings moving south in vast numbers .
The Night’s Watch is a pack of thieves, killers, and baseborn churls . If Mormont is indeed dead, the black brothers must choose a new Lord Commander . Tyrion liked that notion not at all, his father said .
The Night’s Watch is not Harrenhal, however. There is a tool for every task, and a task for every tool.” Tyrion’s anger flashed . “I count that a point in his favor. Who is like to bid higher than us?” Pycelle bobbed his withered head once more . Slynt should have gone for a swim with his dear friend Allar Deem .
Giant was a thick man made thicker by the smelly sheepskins he wore day and night . He had a broad flat nose, a mouth that drooped to one side, and a missing ear . "I fed you what I could, but you crows are always hungry. You think I need the likes of him, dying on my floor?" The wildling spat .
Brown Bernarr had been carrying bags of Myrish fire, mustard salve, ground garlic, tansy, poppy, kingscopper, and other healing herbs . Hake had known some herblore as well, being a cook, but Hake was also lost . At least they are dry here, with a fire to warm them .
Clubfoot Karl kept saying how Craster had to have a hidden larder . Garth of Oldtown had begun to echo him when he was out of Lord Commander's hearing . Does he know I spoke to Gilly, the last time we were here?
Craster was a brutal man who ruled his wives and daughters with an iron hand . He had given them space on his floor, a roof to keep the snow off, and a fire to dry them out . Gilly is his. His daughter, his wife. His roof, his rule.
Gilly had lent her black cloak to conceal her belly when she went to find Jon Snow . It was her child Gilly feared for; she was frightened it might be a boy . Craster raised up his daughters to be his wives, but there were neither men nor boys to be seen about his compound .
Sam stumbled away from the firepit, stepping awkwardly over and around the men sleeping and squatting and dying upon the hard-packed earthen floor . He pushed through the hanging deerhide flaps that served Craster for a door and stepped out into the afternoon . Some patches of snow weighed down the limbs of surrounding trees and blanketed the gold and russet hills .
There were no attacks while they had been at Craster’s, neither wights nor Others . Only the gods will help you then, he reminded himself . The ground beneath his feet was a slush of melting snow and soft mud . It was thicker than shit, though .
Ulmer, stooped and grey-bearded and loose of skin and limb, stepped to the mark and pulled an arrow from the quiver at his waist . In his youth he had been an outlaw, a member of the infamous Kingswood Brotherhood .
Sam turned to go back the way he’d come, but his right foot sank deep in the muck, and when he tried to pull it out his boot came off . He had to kneel to wrench it free, laughter ringing in his ears . “I have no right to be alive when so many brave men are dead,” he said .
"I used to be scared of Jon, whenever I had to fight him. He was so quick, and he fought like he meant to kill me," Grenn said . "You never liked Ser Alliser to call you Aurochs, though, he could. Or you, or Jon. An aurochs is a fierce strong beast, so that’s not so bad, and I am big, and getting bigger."
Dirk had shown Sam his dirk and said, “I got iron, what do I want with glass?” The Garths made it plain that they doubted his whole story . But Dywen listened, and they made Sam and Grenn tell the Lord Commander . There’d been dagger blades and spearheads, and two or three hundred arrowheads at least .
Craster’s sloping palisades of mud and melting snow would hardly slow the wights, who’d climbed the much steeper slopes of the Fist to swarm over the ringwall . But instead of three hundred brothers drawn up in disciplined ranks to meet them, they would find forty-one ragged survivors, nine too badly hurt to fight . Sam asked Grenn, “Why don’t they come finish us?” “They only come when it’s
Sam wished he could believe that when you were dead, fear had no more meaning than pain or love or duty . The dragonglass dagger had melted the pale thing in the woods, true... but Grenn was talking like it would do the same to the wights . Jon wouldn’t call me Slayer, I know. And I could talk to him about Gilly’s baby . I wish it was all a dream, to wake back on the Fist of the First Men .
Mormont swung down from the saddle, jolting his raven back into the air . He saw Sam then, and bellowed, “Tarly!” “Me?” The raven landed on the old man’s head . “You are a man of the Night’s Watch. Try not to soil your smallclothes every time I look at you. Come, I said.” “I’ve been thinking about this dragonglass of yours.”
The Night’s Watch has forgotten its true purpose, Tarly . You don’t build a wall seven hundred feet high to keep savages in skins from stealing women . The Wall was made to guard the realms of men... and not against other men, which is all the wildlings are when you come right down to it .
The Old Bear broke off as Craster emerged from between the flaps of his door . The wildling smiled, revealing a mouth of brown rotten teeth . “Are you, now? Me, I’ll be glad when you and yours are gone” Lord Commander Mormont bristled .
Sam pushed through the deerhides, back into the gloom of the hall . "How great a fool are you?" the old man said within, his voice choked and angry . The wildling hated bastards, though the rangers said he was baseborn himself .
The night’s Watch buried its dead with all due ceremony . The surviving brothers divided up his clothes, weapons, his armor, and everything else he owned . They were not at Castle Black, though. And bones do not come back as wights .
Sam was red-eyed and sick from the smoke . When he looked at the fire, he thought he saw Bannen sitting up, his hands coiling into fists as if to fight off the flames that were consuming him . The worst thing was the smell .
Edd says we need to learn to ride dead horses, like the Others do . He says it would save on feed. How much could a dead horse eat? He laced himself back up . "I shouldn’t be so gloomy. Might be I’ll die before they work it out," Sam thought .
Lord Commander Mormont took the place at the top of the bench to his right . Sam found a place between Grenn and Orphan Oss, his stomach rumbling . The charred horsemeat dripped with grease as Craster’s wives turned the spits above the firepit .
“You’re a niggardly man,” said Karl, in a reverent voice . “There were pigs, last time we come. I bet he’s got hams hid someplace,” said Dirk . Lord Commander Mormont rose. “Silence. I’ll hear no more such talk.”
Ser Byam screamed as Craster drowned in his own blood . Dirk had grabbed him by the hair, yanked his head back, and opened his throat ear to ear with one long slash . He knocked her to the floor. “The gods will curse us,” he cried . “There is no crime so foul as for a guest to bring murder into a man’s hall. By all the laws of the hearth, we—
Garth of Greenaway blocked his path, and Ollo Lophand yanked him back . He twisted free of the old man’s grasp, shoved the knife into Mormont’s belly . Later, much later, Sam found himself crosslegged on the floor, with Mormont's head in his lap .
The raven cocked its head, beady black eyes shining . “Tell Jorah. Forgive him. My son. Please. Go.” “I’ll never reach the Wall, my lord.” He was so very tired . Three of Craster’s wives were standing over them .
"The blackest crows are down in the cellar, gorging," said the old woman on the left . "You said you’d help me," Gilly reminded him . “You said Jon would help you. Jon’s brave, and he’s a good fighter, but I think he's dead now. I’m a craven. And fat. Look how fat I am. Can’t you see? I couldn’t leave the Lord Commander.” Sam closed the Old Bear
Arya Her eyes had grown accustomed to blackness . A huge firepit had been dug in the center of the earthen floor . The walls were equal parts stone and soil, with huge white roots twisting through them .
Tom Sevenstrings stood talking to a tall thin man with oddments of old armor buckled on over his ratty pink robes . Arya remembered the red priest as fat, with a smooth face and a shiny bald head . The Mad Huntsman turned out to be a stocky man in patched tan leathers, balding and weak-chinned and quarrelsome .
Thoros turned to the prisoner and yanked his hood off . The shifting flames painted Sandor Clegane’s burned face with orange shadows . He looked even more terrible than he did in daylight .
Thoros and Greenbeard were the only men there tall enough to look the Hound in the eye . Anguy the Archer bristled at the suggestion of cowardice . "Some of us was swineherds," Arya said .
“Six score of us set out to bring the king’s justice to your brother” . The speaker was descending the tangle of steps toward the floor . “More than eighty of our company are dead now, but others have taken up the swords that fell from their hands.” When he reached the floor, the outlaws moved aside to let him pass .
“The king is dead,” the scarecrow knight admitted, “but we are still king’s men.” “Robert is slain, but his realm remains. And we defend her.” “Her?” The Hound snorted. “Is she your mother, Dondarrion? Or your whore?” Jeyne Poole had fallen in love with him .
“Any knight can make a knight,” said Beric Dondarrion . “You will die soon enough, dog,” Thoros promised, “but it shan’t be murder, only justice.” “Aye,” said the Mad Huntsman .
"You serve the Lannisters of Casterly Rock," said Lord Beric . "Is each of us guilty of the crimes of the others?" Clegane spat . “Might be you are knights after all. You lie like knights," said Dondarrion .
Arya squirted past Greenbeard so fast he never saw her . “You killed Mycah, don’t say you never did. You murdered him!” She screamed . She could feel them looking at her now, the women and the children .
“I heard it from the royal lips. It’s not my place to question princes.” Clegane jerked his hands toward Arya . Thoros drew Lord Beric Dondarrion aside . The Hound frowned suspiciously, as if he did not trust his ears .
Arya wanted him to be scared before he died, as scared as Mycah must have been . The Mad Huntsman sliced apart the ropes that bound Sandor Clegane’s hands together . “I’ll need sword and armor,” said Lord Beric Dondarrion .
Thoros ripped the sword free and threw away the scabbard . The Mad Huntsman gave him his oaken shield, studded with iron and painted yellow . Lord Beric was so hacked and battered that the purple lightning had almost been obliterated .
Lord Beric laid the edge of his longsword against the palm of his left hand, and drew it slowly down . Blood ran dark from the gash he made, and then the sword took fire . Arya heard Gendry whisper a prayer. “When I’m done with him you’ll be next, Myr.” “Every word you say proclaims your guilt, dog,” answered Thoros .
The flaming sword leapt up to meet the cold one, long streamers of fire trailing in its wake like the ribbons the Hound had spoken of . Hard and fast the cuts came, from low and high, from right and left, and each one Dondarrion blocked . The flames swirled about Lord Beric’s shield and left red and yellow ghosts to mark its passage .
Arya could see the whites of Sandor Clegane’s eyes as he bulled his way forward again . The Hound’s lank dark hair was plastered to his brow in a sheen of sweat . He’s going to lose, she said, exulting, as Lord Beric’s sword whirled and slashed .
Lord Beric screamed as he felt the fire licking against the back of his thighs . He charged, swinging the heavy sword harder and harder, trying to smash the smaller man down with brute force, to break blade or shield or arm . When the Hound jerked away from them, his foot went out from under him and he staggered to one knee .
Sandor Clegane jerked backward, still burning . He ripped remnants of his shield off and flung them away with a curse . The Hound’s sword was still in him as he toppled face forward . Arya looked at him in astonishment .
“You killed Mycah,” Arya said once more, daring him to deny it . “You go to hell, Hound,” she screamed at Sandor Clegane in empty-handed rage .
Catelyn Let the kings of winter have their cold crypt under the earth . They laid Lord Hoster in a slender wooden boat, clad in shining silver armor, plate-and-mail . A trout, scaled in silver and bronze, crowned the crest of the greathelm . On his chest they placed a painted wooden sword, his fingers curled about its hilt .
Robb was one, Lord Hoster’s liege lord. With him were the Lords Bracken, Blackwood, Vance, and Mallister, Ser Marq Piper... and Lame Lothar Frey . They were commanded by Walder Rivers, the eldest of Lord Walder’s bastard brood .
The seven launched Lord Hoster from the water stair, wading down the steps . Lothar Frey and Tytos Blackwood stood chest deep in the river to guide it on its way . Beneath her, the swift wild Tumblestone plunged like a spear into the side of the broad Red Fork .
Edmure lifted, pulled, and released . High and far the arrow flew. Too far. It vanished in the river a dozen yards beyond the boat . The boat was almost out of range, drifting in and out among the mists .
Ser Brynden said, He nocked an arrow, held it steady for the brand, drew and released before Catelyn was quite sure that the fire had caught... but as the shot rose, she saw the flames trailing through the air, a pale orange pennon . Then, sudden as hope, they saw the red bloom flower, and the fog glowed pink and orange .
Lord Hoster had broken down and wept, full of regrets for things undone and words unsaid . "Did he speak of me at the end? Tell me true, Cat. Did he ask for me?" he told her tearfully . The Blackfish escorted her down from the battlements to where she stood among his bannermen .
Catelyn had hoped that Brienne and Ser Cleos would have reached the city with their captive . The letter would have set her heart at ease . “It was never my wish to sow enmity between us,” said Robb .
The Lord of the Crossing had outlived seven wives and was now wed to his eighth, but he spoke of them only as bedwarmers and brood mares . Nor did Robb. “Your father is most gracious,” he said . By then a dozen others had gathered for a word .
Robett Glover and Ser Helman Tallhart had battled at Duskendale . Lord Randyll Tarly had shattered the kingsroad . Martyn was Ser Kevan’s son, a twin to the Willem that Lord Karstark had butchered .
“I have won every battle, yet somehow I’m losing the war.” He looked up, as if the answer might be written on the sky . “My father has been dying for a long time. You could not have changed that. You have made mistakes, Robb, but what king has not? Ned would have been proud of you.” “Mother, there is something you must know.” Catelyn’s heart skipped a beat .
Sansa is married, Arya is lost, my father’s dead... if anything befell you, I would go mad, Robb. You are all the north has left.” “No. Never.” “There is no shame in it.” “Did Aegon kill King Torrhen’s father?” He pulled his hand from hers . “I should have let Lysa push him out her Moon Door. My poor sweet Sanssa... why would anyone do this to her?” “For
“The Lannisters do not need the north. They will require homage and hostages, no more... and the Imp will keep Sansa no matter what we do, so they have their hostage. The ironmen will prove a more implacable enemy, I promise you. To have any hope of holding the north, the Greyjoys must leave no single sprig of House Stark alive to dispute their right. Do you think Lord Balon can afford to let her live to bear you heirs?”
Rollam Westerling was sewing in her bedchamber when her son came running with the summons to supper . She had not been certain that her son would want her there, after their quarrel . "A dutiful squire," Catelyn said to Rollam gravely .
“Your nephews are young, I grant you, but they were there,” said Ser Brynden . “The ironmen put many of them to the sword, I fear,” Catelyn numbly said .
"I cannot speak to that. There is much confusion in any war," Robb said suddenly . “What happened to Theon Greyjoy? Was he slain?” Ser Brynden said, “We will be certain to ask him.” “You are all distraught, I see. I am sorry to have brought you such fresh grief.” Her brother Edmure nodded .
Roslin is my lord father’s youngest daughter by Lady Bethany of House Rosby, his sixth wife . Edmure shifted in his seat . “I will take your word so far as her teeth are concerned,” said Walder Rivers curtly .
We all want Lord Walder to die happy, said Catelyn . “My brother has just lost his own father. He needs time to mourn.” “Roslin is a cheerful girl,” said Lothar. “I take your meaning, Rivers. Pray excuse us.” “As Your Grace commands.” Edmure was seething .
“I have no more wish to suffer Walder Frey’s insults and complaints than you do, Brother, but I see little choice here. Without this wedding, Robb’s cause is lost. “The eighth Lady Frey is still alive and well, so far as I know,” she replied . Davos Lord Alester looked up sharply .
Ser Axell Florent and four guardsmen followed close behind him . Lamprey thrust a great iron key into the lock, turned it, and pulled open the cell . “No, I swear to you, I committed no treason,” Lord Alester said .
Ser Axell climbed the turnpike stair in single file . The walls were rough dark dark stone, cool to the touch . They guessed that they were near the surface by then, perhaps even above it .
"You would. You will. I see it in your face. And I have seen it in the flames as well." "The queen has urged my appointment," Ser Axell said . "The defeat gnaws inside him, a black worm in his soul. It is up to us who love him to show him what to do. Tell him that I am the only Hand he needs."
Ser Axell released him. “Good.” He smiled. “His Grace awaits. Best we do not keep him.” “As it please you, I have brought the onion knight.” “So I see.” Stannis Baratheon wore a grey wool tunic, a dark red mantle, and a plain black leather belt from which his sword and dagger hung .
“I have missed you, ser. I have need of good counsel, and you never gave me less. So tell me true—what is the penalty for treason?” Stannis commanded . “Treason?” Davos finally managed, weakly, to deny your king and seek to steal his rightful throne .
Lord Grandison and Cafferen hung their banners in the hall as trophies . They would sit beneath those banners of a night, drinking and feasting with Robert . I would have thrown them into a dungeon, but he turned them into friends .
Lord Estermont has bent his knee to Joffrey . "Defeat is a disease, and victory is the cure," Ser Axell said . The king’s mouth twisted .
Ser Axell proposed to use Salladhor Saan’s fleet and the men who had escaped the Blackwater—Stannis still had some fifteen hundred on Dragonstone . Claw Isle was but lightly garrisoned, its castle reputedly stuffed with Myrish carpets, Volantene glass, gold and silver plate, jeweled cups, magnificent hawks, an axe of Valyrian steel .
Ser Davos turned back to face Ser Axell . “We will find traitors,” said Davo. “I don’t doubt Lord Celtigar bent the knee to the boy Joffrey. He is an old done man, who wants no more than to end his days in his castle,” he said .
Stannis Baratheon was a man of iron will who neither understood nor forgave weakness in others . A desperate folly took hold of Davos, a recklessness akin to madness . “As you remained loyal to King Aerys when your brother raised his banners?” he blurted .
Aerys cut himself so often men took to calling him King Scab . Maegor the Cruel was murdered in that chair . "Why would you want it, then?" Davos asked.
"I am king. Wants do not enter into it. I have a duty to my daughter. To the realm. Even to Robert. He loved me but little, I know, yet yet he was my brother. The Lannister woman gave him horns and made a motley fool of him. She may have murdered him as well, as she murdered Jon Arryn and Ned Stark . For such crimes there must be justice. Starting with Cersei and her abominations. But only
“Now you sound a fool,” the king complained. “She saw Renly’s end in the flames, yes, but she had no more part in it than I did. It was Melisandre who told me to send for you when Ser Axell wished to give you to R’hllor.” “But you are a friend to me. She knows that as well.” He beckoned Davos closer. “The boy is sick. Maester Pylos has been leeching him
Renly was no better. He left the boy’s upbringing to castellans and maesters, and every one fell victim to his charm . He does not use the boy's name, that made Davos very uneasy .
Aegon saw that three hundred years ago when he stood where we are standing. They painted this table at his command. Rivers and bays they painted, hills and mountains, castles and cities, lakes and swamps and forests... but no borders. It is all one. One realm, for one king to rule alone. A thing Ser Axell understands as little as he does war. Claw Isle would gain me naught... and it was evil .
Davos knelt and Stannis drew his longsword . Lightbringer, Melisandre had named it; the red sword of heroes . The room seemed to grow brighter as the blade slid from its scabbard .
Ser Gilbert Farring holds Storm’s End for me still, with two hundred loyal men . Lord Morrigen, the Bastard of Nightsong, young Chyttering, my cousin Andrew... but I trust none of them as I trust you, my lord of Rainwood. You will be my Hand. It is you I want beside me for the battle” .
Lady Melisandre bids me gaze into the hearthfire . The chimney was drawing strongly, and bits of ash were rising from the fire . She asked me look deeper, and... the ashes were white, rising in the updraft .
“Why me, and not my brothers? Renly and his peach. In my dreams I see the juice running from his mouth, the blood from his throat.” “He is in my dreams as well. Laughing. Drinking. Boasting. I never bested him at anything.” “Because you are a righteous man,” said Melisandre. “You swore it would work.” “I have told you, no.” “Give me the boy, Your Grace. It is the surer
Melisandre bowed her head stiffly, and said, “As my king commands.” Reaching up her left sleeve with her right hand, she flung a handful of powder into the brazier . As pale flames writhed atop them, the red woman retrieved the silver dish and brought it to the king . Beneath were three large black leeches, fat with blood .
Harrenhal’s bathhouse was a dim, steamy, low-ceilinged room filled with great stone tubs . When they led Jaime in, they found Brienne seated in one of them, scrubbing her arm almost angrily . The pointy little buds she was intent on hiding would have looked more natural on some ten-year-old than they did on her thick muscular chest .
“Why should I care how you die?” “You swore a solemn vow.” He smiled as a red flush crept up the thick white column of her neck . “Still the shy maiden? What is it that you think I haven’t seen?” He groped for the brush she had dropped, caught it with his fingers, and began to scrub himself desultorily .
Jaime jerked to her feet as if he’d struck her . He averted his eyes, troubled by his body’s response . “I’m a maimed man, and bitter. Forgive me, wench. You protected me as well as any man could have,” he mumbled .
Jaime felt lightheaded. It is the heat in here, the poison in my blood, the last of my fever. I am not myself. He eased himself down until the water reached his chin . “After dancing griffins lost the Battle of the Bells, Aerys exiled him.” Why am I telling this absurd ugly child?
Aerys's new mace-and-dagger Hand was not utterly stupid . It had come back to him suddenly, with the telling . He reasoned, he jested, threatened, and finally he begged . When that failed he took off his chain of office .
Aerys wanted to keep Varys close to him, day and night . He remembered how Rossart’s eyes would shine when he unrolled his maps to show where the substance must be placed . The traitors want my city, I heard him tell Rossart, but I’ll give them naught but ashes . I do not believe he truly expected to die .
Lord Rossart was with him, my messenger said . He slew Aerys, before he could find someone else to carry his message to the pyromancers . Jaime opened his eyes, found himself staring at the stump of his sword hand . The goat had robbed him of his glory and his shame, both at once .
Brienne was naked, but seemed to have forgotten that for the moment . “The heat of the tubs will do it,” Maester Qyburn was telling them. “There’s still poison in his blood as well, and he’s malnourished. What should we do with him?”
Qyburn returned with roughspun smallclothes, clean black woolen breeches, a loose green tunic, and a leather jerkin that laced up the front . It was obvious that the gown had been cut for someone with slimmer arms, shorter legs, and much fuller breasts . The Bloody Maester had brought fresh clothing for Brienne as well .
A dozen spearmen in fur cloaks guarded the doors and the steps that led up to the two galleries above . Roose Bolton’s eyes were paler than stone, darker than milk, and his voice was spider soft . He gestured at the spread of cheese, bread, cold meat, and fruit .
Roose Bolton gave a soft chuckle . Lord Karstark promises the hand of his daughter to the man who brings him your head .
Ser Jaime tore a fist-sized chunk off one end of the loaf and handed it to Jaime . Jaime felt almost sorry for Robb Stark. He lost it in a bedchamber, poor fool .
“Oh, trout makes for a tasty supper.” Bolton lifted a pale finger toward his cupbearer . “My poor Elmar is bereft. He was to wed Arya Stark, but my good father of Frey had no choice but to break the betrothal when King Robb betrayed him.” “Okay, yes,” said the Lord of the Dreadfort .
Roose Bolton thought he knew the game they were playing now . But does the wench know as well? He dare not look to see . "Ser Jaime is to be exchanged for Lady Catelyn’s daughters."
Roose Bolton cut his meat methodically, the blood running across his plate . He stabbed a chunk of meat with the point of his dagger, put it in his mouth, chewed thoughtfully, swallowed . “The curse of Harren the Black?” mocked Jaime.
Bolton held out his goblet and Elmar refilled it silently . “There are no Tarbecks or Reynes,” said Jaime . "He knows little of Stannis Baratheon either, I fear. That one might have given him Harrenhal for his service... but he’s given him a noose for his crimes as well.” “By now he has come to the same realization.”
Hoat is smaller and meaner than Harrenhal, but it lies well beyond the reach of the lion’s claws . If he could collect some gold from your father so much the better, but he would have delivered you to Lord Rickard no matter how much Lord Tywin paid . Glover and Tallhart were broken at Duskendale, but remnants of their host are still abroad .
"You want me to absolve you of blame. To tell my father that this stump is no work of yours," Jaime laughed . "My lord, send me to Cersei, and I’ll sing as sweet a song as you could want, of how gently you treated me," Bolton said .
Tyrion A horse whickered impatiently behind him, from amidst the ranks of gold cloaks drawn up across the road . Tyrion Could hear Lord Gyles coughing as well . He had not asked for Gyles, no more than he’d asked for Ser Addam .
Bronn was carrying the royal standard, Joffrey’s great stag-and-lion, and struggling with its weight . He had been making a diligent study of Dornish heraldry, at Tyrion’s command, but as ever he was nervous . “My horse would have known that one,” said Tyrion dryly .
“The vulture of Blackmont grasps a baby in its talons,” said Pod . “The manwoodys of Kingsgrave.” “Three black spiders?” “They’re scorpions, ser. House Qorgyle of Sandstone.” “The flames of Hellholt. House Uller.” Tyrion was impressed .
Nine of the greatest lords of Dorne were coming up the kingsroad . Tyrion wondered if it had been a mistake to ship Myrcella down to Sunspear . "Doran Martell always travels in a litter with silk hangings, and suns on the drapes"
The salty Dornishmen were lithe and dark, with smooth olive skin and long black hair streaming in the wind . They were even darker, with faces that freckled or burned in the sun instead of browning . The lords wore silk and satin robes with jeweled belts and flowing sleeves .
The Dornish leader forked a stallion black as sin with a mane and tail the color of fire . His high gilded helm displayed a copper sun on its brow, and the round shield slung behind him bore the sun-and-spear of House Martell on its polished metal surface . Tyrion thought as he reined up, too fit as well, and far too fierce.
Ser Ryon Allyrion and his natural son Ser Daemon Sand, the Bastard of Godsgrace. Lord Dagos Manwoody, his brother Ser Myles, his sons Mors and Dickon. Ser Arron Qorgyle. And never let it be thought that I would neglect the ladies. Myria Jordayne, her daughter Jynessa, her son Perros.
Tyrion perforce muttered under his breath as he fell in beside the man . The Red Viper of Dorne, Tyrion's lords, was his own party . "Let me present Ser Flement Brax, heir to Hornvale. Lord Gyles of Rosby. Jalabhar Xho, Prince of the Red Flower Vale. Ser Harys Swyft, my uncle Kevan’s good father by marriage.
Prince Oberyn had been found abed with the paramour of old Lord Yronwood . Both men took cuts, and honor was satisfied . But Lord yrnwood’s wounds festered and killed him . He had traveled in the Free Cities, leaming the poisoner’s trade .
Tyrion sent Prince Oberyn to King’s Landing while the city still hosted Lord Mace Tyrell, two of his sons, and thousands of their men-at-arms . The Dornish prince said lightly to Tyrion as they rode side by side along the kingsroad, past ashen fields and the skeletons of trees . There was a mocking edge to his voice that Tyrion misliked .
Lord Tywin Lannister ruled the Seven Kingdoms, but Lady Joanna ruled him . But Tyrion was gone now, lost beyond the seas, and Tyrion himself had put lady Joanna in her grave . "You were small, but far-famed. We were in Oldtown at your birth," the black-haired prince replied .
Lord Tywin had made himself greater than King Aerys, I heard one begging brother preach, but only a god is meant to stand above a king. You were his curse, a punishment sent by the gods to teach him that he was no better than any other man.” “But do go on, I pray you. I love a good tale.”
Lord Tywin’s Doom turned out to be just a hideous red infant with stunted legs . Elia even made the noise that young girls make at the sight of infants . The same noise they make over cute kittens and playful puppies .
Tyrion Lannister told a curious tale from Lord Buckler’s steward . He claimed that you had put a tax on women’s privy purses . “Only a penny for each, ah... act. The King’s Hand felt it might help improve the morals of the city” .
Oberyn abruptly changed the subject . "I have hungered for a long time. Though not for food. Pray tell me, when will the justice be served?" "Justice." Gods, I hope not .
Jon Arryn came to Sunspear the year after Robert took the throne . I came for justice for Elia and her children, and I will have it . Before he dies, the Enormity That Rides will tell me whence came his orders .
Do you smell the gold cloaks? There are near five thousand of them . My father’s own sworn swords must account for another twenty thousand . "As you trampled Willas Tyrell?" The Dornishman did not react as expected .
Arya The man on the roof was the first to die . He was crouched down by the chimney two hundred yards away . Anguy’s arrow took him in the chest .
Thoros gave a shout, and the outlaws attacked in earnest . Arya watched from atop her horse, on the crest of the wooded ridge that overlooked the septry, mill, brewhouse, and stables and the desolation of weeds, burnt trees .
A Myrish crossbowman poked his head out a different window, got off a bolt, and ducked down to rewind . Anguy and the other archers were waiting, so the shaft ripped through his shoulder . Arya could see flames in several of the second-story windows .
Arya saw a man take an arrow through the chest with one leg across a windowsill . Watty fell with a grunt, his bow slipping from his hand . Thoros and Lord Beric were everywhere, their swords swirling fire . A Dothraki screamed and charged the lightning lord, and the sword leapt out to meet his arakh .
Jack-Be-Lucky, Harwin, and Merrit o’ Moontown braved the burning septry to search for captives . They emerged from the smoke and flames a few moments later with eight brown brothers . There was a septon with them as well, round-shouldered and balding, but he wore black chainmail over his grey robes. “Oh, grievously have I sinned,” the septon wailed .
Septon Utt dangled beneath a tall elm, swinging slowly by the neck, as naked as his name day . A few fought, kicking and struggling as the noose was tightened round their throats . One of the crossbowmen kept shouting, “I soldier, I soldier,” in a thick Myrish accent . The other Brave Companions followed one by one .
The septry collapsed in a roar of smoke and flame, its walls no longer able to support the weight of its heavy slate roof . The eight brown brothers watched with resignation . They were all that remained, explained the eldest .
Arya found a slice of carrot floating in her bowl, and counted herself lucky . Lord Beric wore the lightning bolt on breastplate, shield, and cloak . Thoros was bold enough to tell the red priest not to pray to his false god .
Lord Beric looked at Lem with a queer look in his good eye and no look at all in the other, only scars and dried blood . Thoros bowed his head as he strode out into the windy night .
Ser Burton Crakehall broke helm and head with a blow of his mace . He unwound his scarf, exposing the black bruise that encircled his neck . “Here is where the Mountain thrust his dirk through my visor.” A weary smile brushed his lips .
Arya felt tears well in her eyes as the fire filled her mouth with fire . He had given the Hound’s gold to Greenbeard and the Huntsman to buy provisions south of the Mander . "The last harvest burned, this one is drowning, and winter will soon be on us," she said .
Lady Catelyn always wanted her to be like Sansa, to sing and dance and sew and mind her courtesies . "I ruined that gown that Lady Smallwood gave me, and I don’t sew so good," she chewed her lip . Lord Beric sighed. "Your brother will pay, child. Have no fear on that count."
Tom Sevenstrings sang “The Mother’s Tears” and “When Willum’s Wife Was Wet” . Then there was only the sound of the rain itself beating down on the slate roof of the brewhouse . “I could shoe him for you,” said Gendry all of a sudden .
Lord Bolton just hanged folk or took off their heads, and there’s holes where the death came through . You won’t be stealing no kisses from a princess, nor riding in no tourneys in stolen armor . "I’d sooner smith for you," said Lord Beric .
“Aye, that’s so,” said Jack-Be-Lucky cheerfully . “Thoros, my sword.” This time the lightning lord did not set the blade afire, but merely laid it light on Gendry’s shoulder . He said, “Arise Ser Gendry, knight of the hollow hill, and be welcome to our brotherhood.” The rain was running off him .
"Do you wish to die so very much, Sandor?" asked Thoros . "You must be mad or drunk to follow us here." "Come try it, Archer. I’ll take that quiver off you and shove those arrows up your freckly little little arse."
“You’re no more than common thieves.” Lem glowered . “I’m twelve,” Arya lied loudly, “and I could be a knight if I wanted. I could have killed you too, only Lem took my knife.” He turned back to Lord Beric .
Sandor Clegane looked at their faces, every one, as if he were trying to commit them all to memory . Harwin took a wary look out the door before he left, to make sure the Hound was not lurking just outside . "He’ll come murder us in our sleep for sure, then," Watty the Miller said.
Sandor Clegane would kill us all gladly, but not in our sleep . "That’s a good horse," Anguy protested. “I’m with Lem,” Notch said . “My lord is wise,” Thoros told the others .
Ser Gregor, Dunsen, Polliver, Raff the Sweetling. The Tickler and the Hound. Ser Ilyn, Ser Meryn, King Joffrey, Queen Cersei . Arya woke again in the black of night, tingling . The fire had burned down to embers. Mudge stood by the door, and another guard was pacing outside .
Bran The tower stood upon an island, its twin reflected on the still blue waters . When the wind blew, ripples moved across the surface of the lake . It was the first village they had seen since leaving the foothills .
Maester Luwin was proud that he still remembered that part . “Some maesters say it was some other Brandon, not the Builder, but it’s still Brandon’s Gift.” He waved a hand. “Here. All this.” No one had lived in the village for long years, Bran could see. All the houses were falling down. Even the inn. It had never been much of an inn, to look at it, but now all that remained was a stone chimney and two cracked walls
The Night’s Watch isn’t so strong as it was in Brandon’s day or Queen Alysanne’s, so more get through . The places nearest the Wall got raided so much the smallfolk moved south, into the mountains or onto the Umber lands east of the kingsroad . “There’s a storm coming. A bad one,” said Bran .
Meera found the foot of it easily enough, once she knew to look . They could see where the path emerged again, climbing from the water onto the island . The path, steps, and door were in a straight line .
Steps built into the inner wall of the tower curved away upward to their left, downward to their right, behind iron grates . Hodor grabbed hold of the lefthand door and gave it a pull, grunting with effort . He shook the bars, kicked, shoved against them and rattled them .
The higher they climbed, the better the light; on the third story the outer wall was pierced by arrow slits . On the fourth side was a privy chamber perched above a sewer chute that dropped straight down into the lake . By the time they reached the roof the sky was completely overcast, and the clouds to the west were black .
There were nineteen of them all told, though no more than seventeen had ever been manned at any one time . At the feast in honor of King Robert’s visit to Winterfell, Bran had recited the names for his uncle Benjen Stark . By the time he’d woke crippled from his sleep, his uncle had gone back to Castle Black .
Benjen Stark had vanished on a ranging, but surely he would have made his way back by now . Jojen shaded his eyes with a hand and gazed off toward the setting sun . He saw nothing at first, till some movement made him turn .
A few fat wet drops began to patter against the stone as they retreated to the floor below . Meera crept out on her belly to peer across the lake and see what had become of the horseman . “I wish we could have a fire,” Hodor said. “Fire means smoke. Smoke from this tower could be seen a long way off,” his sister argued.
Bran and Meera shared the breast while Jojen ate the thigh . He devoured the wing and leg, muttering “Hodor” and licking the grease off his fingers after every bite . It was Bran’s turn to tell a story, so he told them about another Brandon Stark .
“I can try.” “Hodor, hush,” said Bran. “Be quiet now. No more stupid hodoring. Sit down.” “HODOR!” he roared, clapping his hands over his ears and stumbling in a circle through the darkness . “NO HODORING!” “NO!” “Men in the village.” “The man we saw before?” “Other men. Armed. I saw an axe, and spears as well.” “
Meera tried to catch him and calm him, but he was too strong . “Be quiet!” Bran said in a shrill scared voice, reaching up uselessly for Hodor’s leg . He shook his head slowly from side to side, sank back to the floor, and sat crosslegged .
Meera mussed Bran’s hair and kissed him on the forehead . "The night will end, though. If they stay till morning... They are feeding the fire the first man started." Lightning crashed through the sky, and light filled the tower and etched them all in shadow.
In the New Gift there had been villages and holdfasts whose taxes helped feed and clothe the black brothers . In legend, Brandon the Builder had used giants to raise Winterfell . He could tell she did not believe him .
Winterfell belonged to his brother, the King in the North . Jon Snow was a Snow, not a Stark . The word was an oathbreaker, and turncloak... “Might be after we could come back here, and live in that tower,” she said .
The gods made the earth for all men t’ share. Only when the kings come with their crowns and steel swords, they claimed it was all theirs. My trees, they said, you can’t eat them apples. My water, my castle, my daughter, keep your hands away or I’ll chop ’em off . You call us thieves, but at least a thief has t' be brave and clever and quick .
Jon twisted like an eel and wrenched away from him . It was easy to forget that sometimes, when they were laughing together, or kissing . But then one of them would say something, or do something, and he would suddenly be reminded of the wall between their worlds .
Wildlings fought like heroes or demons, depending on who you talked to, but it came down to the same thing in the end . They fight with reckless courage, every man out for glory . In the end Mance will fail as all the Kings-beyond-the-Wall have failed before him .
A section of the stone steps had collapsed a century before, but even so the descent was a good deal easier than the climb . Grigg the Goat led them past the few inhabited villages that remained in these lands . Aside from a few scattered roundtowers poking the sky like stone fingers, they saw no sign of man .
Castle Black had no defenses, but for the Wall itself . It lacked even wooden palisades or earthen dikes, two-thirds of them falling into ruin . Some of those were builders or stewards, not rangers .
Thenns spoke the Old Tongue and seldom talked to Jon at all . It was different with Jarl’s raiders, the men who’d climbed the Wall . The worst of the lot was Del, a horsefaced youth near Jon’s own age .
Jon had to bite his tongue . He didn’t want to know about the boil on Big Boil’s arse, how much ale Stone Thumbs could drink, or how Quort’s little brother had begged him not to go with Jarl .
The village sat beside a lake, and had been so long abandoned that most of the houses had collapsed . Even the small timber inn that must once have been a welcome sight for travelers stood half-fallen and roofless . Errok and Del crept ahead to scout the ruins, but Del was back almost at once .
The Magnar had said as much at Greyguard; any kneelers they met were to be put to death at once . Did that mean he must stand mute and helpless while they slit an old man’s throat? The Thenn growled something in the Old Tongue and pointed his spear back toward the inn .
Jon Snow shook his head as a huge bolt of lightning stabbed down from the sky and touched the surface of the lake . Jon asked, as the sound rolled away and the night turned black again .
Old Nan had told him the story, but Maester Luwin had confirmed most of it . When he came to Winterfell, he brought his queen, six dragons, and half his court . Alysanne grew bored, so she mounted her dragon Silverwing and flew north to see the Wall .
Jon drew Longclaw from its sheath, and the firelight traced a sullen orange line along the edge . He remembered what Qhorin Halfhand had said when they spied the fire in the Skirling Pass . A man should have been free to build a fire here, without dying for it .
Longclaw seemed heavier than lead in his hand, too heavy to lift . The Magnar was looking at him too, and he could almost taste the mistrust . Jon remembered another killing; the deserter on his knees, his head rolling, the brightness of blood on snow... his father’s sword... You killed me too, till you saw I was a woman. And I was asleep. No more’n we do, now. It’s just the same. Kill him.” He turned his back on the man.
The Magnar said something in the Old Tongue. He might have been telling the Thenns to kill Jon where he stood, but he would never know the truth of that. Lightning crashed down from the sky, a searing blue-white bolt that touched the top of the tower in the lake. They could smell the fury of it, and when the thunder came it seemed to shake the night. And death leapt down amongst them.
He cut down the first man as he turned toward the wolf, shoved past a second, slashed at a third . The Thenn fighting to control the horse never saw him . He swung at the back of the man’s calf, and felt the steel bite down to the bone .
Jon shook his head. He had no answers. It was too hard to think about the wolf, the old man, Ygritte, any of it... Clumsily, he slid down off the mare’s back . His wounded leg buckled under him, and he had to swallow a scream . He grunted, then cursed, and soon stopped again, trembling .
Jon crawled to the shallow stream where the mare was drinking, washed his thigh in the cold water, and bound it tight with a strip of cloth torn from his cloak . Ygritte fletched her arrows with pale grey goose feathers. Did she loose a shaft at me as I fled? He rested for a while to let the horse graze. It was all he could do to force himself back to his feet and climb onto her back .
Yunkai's harpy grasped a whip and iron collar in her talons instead of a length of chain . Their officers looked indistinguishable from Astapor’s at a distance . "What say you? Can we defeat this army?" Ser Jorah said .
Slate skies and brisk winds saw Dany back to her host . Grey Worm had been their overwhelming choice for the highest rank . The Wise Masters have assembled a slave army to meet us .
Dany abolished the custom of giving the Unsullied new slave names every day . Most of those born free had returned to their birth names . Others had called themselves after heroes or gods .
Dany had left Astapor in the hands of a council of former slaves led by a healer, a scholar, and a priest . But even so, tens of thousands preferred to follow her to Yunkai, rather than remain behind . She could not bring herself to abandon them as Ser Jorah and her bloodriders urged .
Arstan Whitebeard stood outside the entrance of her tent, while Strong Belwas sat crosslegged on the grass nearby, eating a bowl of figs . Her khalasar was tiny, some thirty-odd mounted warriors, and most of them braidless boys and bentback old men . She needed scouts and outriders as well .
Prendahl na Ghezn was a thickset Ghiscari with dark hair going grey . Sallor the Bald had a twisting scar across his pale Qartheen cheek . Daario Naharis was flamboyant even for a Tyroshi .
“That will not happen,” Prendahl na Ghezn said, unmoved . “You fight beside bed-boys armed with spears.” “Once battle is joined, do not ask for quarter. Join me now, however, and you shall keep the gold the Yunkaii paid you and claim a share of the plunder besides, with greater rewards later when I come into my kingdom.”
The Stormcrow captains rose in unison . "Our answer is no," said Prendahl na Ghezn . The Second Sons have faced worse odds and run .
Dany turned to Ser Jorah. “When the battle is joined, kill this one first.” “You are worth fighting for, it is true,” the Braavosi said . “I will pay you as much and more. I have other cities to conquer, and a whole kingdom awaiting me half a world away. Serve me faithfully,” she said.
The Titan’s Bastard does not drink alone, Khaleesi. “A wagon it is, if you promise to drink to my health.” “Done!” he boomed . “Do not be misled by his manner, Your Grace. He will drink three toasts to your health tonight, and rape you on the morrow,” Ser Jorah said bluntly .
Grazdan mo Eraz had a white smile such as Kraznys had worn until Drogon burned off his face . His hair was drawn up in a unicorn’s horn that jutted from his brow, and his tokar was fringed with golden Myrish lace . “Ancient and glorious is Yunkai, the queen of cities,” he said .
Grazdan clapped his hands, and two of his escort came forward bearing a heavy cedar chest bound in bronze and gold . Dany pushed open the lid of the chest with a small slippered foot . It was full of gold coins, just as the envoy said .
The Wise Masters will have the peace they desire, and will have proved themselves wise indeed . If you do this, Yunkai will not be burned or plundered, and none of your people shall be molested.
"You shall rue this arrogance, whore. These little lizards will not keep you safe," says Grazdan mo Eraz . By the end of the third day, I will be in Yunkai, whether you open your gates for me or no." The Stormcrows will be arguing about my offer. "They will have scouts watching for us."
Slave soldiers will never stand before mounted Dothraki,” Ser Jorah said . “To be sure, I am only a young girl and know little of war. What do you think, my lords?” She said with a rueful half smile . It took an hour to work out all the details . Now begins the most dangerous time, Dany thought .
Dany asked queasily, “I bring gifts and glad tidings. The Stormcrows are yours.” A golden tooth gleamed in his mouth when he smiled . “What do Prendahl na Ghezn and Sallor say of this?” “Little.” Daario upended the sack .
Dany liked the swagger she saw in this Daario Naharis . "I count no day as lived unless I have loved a woman," she said .
Ser Jorah gave Daario a cold, hard stare, then shook her head . "If he can give us the Stormcrows, surprise is certain," Dany said . The Tyroshi rose to his feet, bowed, and swept out.
"I have seen how false men are. Very few are worthy of trust," Ser Jorah said . "You are the only man I should ever trust?" He stiffened . “You say it every day. You are the first of my Queensguard," she bulled over him .
Drogon looped his neck around to nip at her hand . It is longer than it was, she saw, and tomorrow it will be longer still . Mounted on a dragon, she could lead her own men into battle, as she had in Astapor .
“It is not meet for me to deny His Grace’s words...” Dany asked sharply. “Tell me. I command it.” “Prince Rhaegar’s prowess was unquestioned, but he never loved the song of swords the way that Robert did, or Jaime Lannister. It was something he had to do, a task the world had set him. He did it well, for he did everything well. That was his nature. But he took no joy
Lord Whent was as open handed as he was rich . The lavish purses he proclaimed drew hundreds of challengers . He crowned Lyanna Stark as queen of love and beauty .
“You make him sound so sour, no, but... there was a melancholy to Prince Rhaegar, a sense...” The old man hesitated again. “Say it,” she urged. “A sense...?” “...of doom. He was born in grief, my queen, and that shadow hung over him all his days.” Perhaps the tale saddened him too much . “It was the shadow of Summerhall that haunted him, was it not?” “
The Stormcrows turned their cloaks, the slaves broke, and the Second Sons were too drunk to fight, just as you said. Two hundred dead, Yunkai’i for the most part. Their slaves threw down their spears and ran, and their sellswords yielded .
“Mhysa! MHYSA!” a brown-skinned man shouted out at Missandei . “It is Ghiscari, the old pure tongue. It means ‘Mother’” Dany felt a lightness in her chest .
Arya walked around the circle of weirwood stumps with Lord Beric’s squire Ned . They stood on top of one watching the last light fade in the west . It wasn’t above the wind, though; the gusts were blowing so strongly that it felt like someone was behind her, yanking on her cloak .
Arya squinted at the fire to see what the red priest was seeing, but it only made her eyes water . Thoros looked dubious. “That was unkind. I was ’prenticed to the master armorer Tobho Mott, on the Street of Steel. You used to buy your swords from him.” “Just so. He charged me twice what they were worth, then scolded me for setting them afire.” Thoroses chuckled
Thoros and Lem were with Lord Beric when the dwarf woman sat down uninvited by the fire . Arya stole closer, and knelt to watch . The woman could not have been more than three feet tall .
Lord Beric gave her the wineskin himself . The dwarf woman drank deep, the wine running down her chin . When she lowered the skin, she wiped her mouth with the back of a wrinkled hand .
Lord Hoster Tully’s died and the iron squids now turn on one another . The old woman took another long gulp of wine, squeezing the skin as she raised it to her lips . Half the men whose deaths she prayed for belonged to Ser Gregor Clegane .
The dwarf woman studied her with dim red eyes . “I see you, wolf child. Blood child. I thought it was the lord who smelled of death...” She began to sob, her little body shaking . There was such fear in her voice that Arya took a step backward, wondering if the woman was mad .
Thoros took Arya firmly by the hand and drew her aside . The dwarf woman vanished as suddenly as she had appeared . It rained all through the night, and come morning Ned, Lem, and Watty the Miller awoke with chills .
Arya had always heard that Dornishmen were small and swarthy, with black hair and small black eyes, but Ned had big blue eyes, so dark they looked almost purple . "How long have you been Lord Beric’s squire?” she asked, to take his mind from his misery . “He took me for his page when he espoused my aunt.” He coughed. “I never learned the lance, but I could beat you with a sword,”
Arya shivered beneath his cloak, a sodden length of pale purple . "I saw your sister there. Ser Loras Tyrell gave her a rose," Ned said .
“You know her? Truly?” Is he making mock of me? “Wylla was my wetnurse,” Ned repeated solemnly . “You have a House?” That was stupid; he was a squire, of course he had a house .
Lady Ashara Dayne threw herself into the sea from atop the Palestone Sword before I was born . Arya looked wary. Maybe he was afraid that she was going to throw something at him . “Your lord father never spoke of her?” Ned said .
It mattered to Arya, though she could not have said why . Ned was trying to apologize for upsetting her, but she did not want to hear it . She pressed her heels into her horse and left them both .
The village was just where Notch had promised it would be . It’s not a village, it’s only black stones and old bones . "Did the Lannisters kill the people who lived here?" asked Gendry .
Notch was a stooped thin grey-haired man born in these parts . Goodbrook stayed loyal to the king, so Lord Tully came down on him with fire and sword . Gendry gave Arya a queer look, then turned away to brush his horse .
Thoros struck the spark, and Lem fanned the flames with his big yellow cloak until they roared and swirled . He paced back and forth, coughing, a long shadow matching him stride for stride . Arya watched him closely, and once his lips moved, and she thought she heard him mutter, “Riverrun.” “I must be mad, to be going back to Riverrun,” the singer complained .
The Lannisters will soon have Riverrun under siege . “Robb will beat them like he did before,” Thoros said. “Your mother as well. I did not see them in the flames” Arya turned on Tom and Lem. “Small chance the Blackfish will pay good coin for a girl he doesn’t know,” Tom said.
A final word hung unspoken in the air. Alive. They all heard it, even Arya, though it never passed his lips . Lady Smallwood will shelter us for a time while we send scouts ahead to learn .
Arya couldn’t have gone more than fifty yards from the stables, yet already she was soaked to the bone . Sandor Clegane needed only one hand to yank her off her feet and drag her kicking toward his waiting horse . It was her own fault, for taking Gendry and Hot Pie with her when she left Harrenhal .
Steelshanks Walton commanded Jaime’s escort; blunt, brusque, brutal, at heart a simple soldier . When the war was done they would go back to their homes, trade their spears for hoes, wed their neighbors’ daughters . Both parties left Harrenhal the same morning, beneath a cold grey sky that promised rain .
Jaime wheeled his horse around and rejoined Steelshanks Walton and his two hundred . Lord Bolton had accoutred him as a knight, preferring to ignore the missing hand . He found an old shield in the armory, battered and splintered .
Jaime was anxious to return to Cersei as quickly as he could . “No one you need fear, surely? You have two hundred men.” “Aye. But others might have more.” Weeds now grew where once the miller’s daughter had smiled shyly at him .
Aerys had chosen him to spite his father, to rob Lord Tywin of his heir . He would have ripped the cloak off then and there if he could have, but it was too late . In his dreams Jaime was a whole man, and each dawn he would lie half-awake and feel his fingers move . The maester smiled modestly .
"I was a slip of a girl when you came for Lord Whent’s tourney," she confessed . "You were so handsome all in white, and everyone said what a brave knight you were," she said . “Do you send girls to everyone you leech?” Qyburn asked .
Vargo Hoat may not know how freakish strong she is . He had best be careful, or she’ll snap that skinny neck of his, and wouldn’t that be sweet? Steelshanks’ companionship was wearing on him .
Tywin Lannister’s own father Lord Tytos had once imprisoned an unruly bannerman, Lord Tarbeck . The redoubtable Lady Tarbeck responded by capturing three Lanisters . Stafford won a few more years for her muttonheaded lord, and Stafford wed and bred .
The hovels stood blackened and roofless, but weeds were growing waist high in all the surrounding fields . A dark-eyed serving wench brought him cheese and apples, but the innkeep had refused his coin . Did he tell them the Kingslayer once drank his ale, or was he ashamed to admit he fed the likes of me? Not that he would ever know; whoever burned it had likely killed them as well .
He had dreamed that he was maimed, but it wasn’t so . Relief made him dizzy. My hand, my good hand. Nothing could hurt him so long as he is whole . Around him stood a dozen tall dark figures in cowled robes that hid their faces . He had no choice but to descend .
Joffrey was there as well, the son they’d made together, and behind them a dozen more dark shapes with golden hair . “Stay with me,” Jaime pleaded. “Don’t leave me here alone.” Something terrible lived down here . Nothing can hurt me so long as I have a sword .
Brienne’s sword took flame as well, burning silvery blue . The darkness retreated a little more . Brienne was moving, slow and wary, sword to hand; step, turn, and listen .
He saw two riders on pale horses, men and mounts both armored . The destriers emerged from the blackness at a slow walk . He remembered Eddard Stark, riding the length of Aerys’s throne room wrapped in silence .
Prince Rhaegar burned with a cold light, now white, now red, now dark . Jaime’s sword was burning less brightly now .
Qyburn knelt beside him, his fatherly face all crinkly with concern . “What is it? Why did you scream?” Steelshanks Walton stood above them, tall and dour . There’s no place like that beneath the Rock, he thought. His stomach was sour and empty .
Steelshanks regarded him dubiously. He thinks I’ve gone mad . “If I don’t serve you up to your father as commanded, Lord Bolton will have my hide. We press on to King’s Landing.” The man frowned suspiciously .
“No, but who will my father believe?” Jaime Lannister smiled . “I’d sing such a sweet song in King’s Landing you’ll never believe your ears.” “Gold?” Walton liked that well enough. “Why, how much gold?” I have him . By the time the sun came up, they were halfway back to Harrenhal .
Jaime's head jerked round at the sound of a distant roar, faint but ferocious . He slammed his spurs into his horse, galloping across the outer ward, beneath an arched stone bridge, around the Wailing Tower, and through the Flowstone Yard . The Brave Companions filled only a quarter of the seats, but only those across the pit noticed their arrival .
Brienne wore the same ill-fitting gown she’d worn to supper with Roose Bolton . Half her gown was hanging off in tatters, and her left arm dripped blood where the bear had raked her . The wench held it one-handed, moving sideways, trying to put some distance between her and the bear .
Brienne slid to her left and poked again at the bear’s face . This time he lifted a paw to swat the sword aside . He knows swords and spears can hurt him. But that won’t keep him off her long .
The bear mauled the air and roared like blazes . He circled toward her, putting himself between Brienne and the bear . It proved to be a human jawbone, with some greenish flesh still clinging to it .
Steelshanks’s archers were winding their crossbows and reloading . Rorge and Three Toes had swords out, Jaime saw, and Zollo was uncoiling his whip . “You thlew my bear!” Vargo Hoat shrieked. “We’re taking the wench.” “Her name is Brienne,” Jaime said .
Catelyn Rob was touched by that, but abashed as well . Jeyne sent him forth with a long embrace and a longer kiss . The day was damp and grey, a drizzle had begun to fall .
Catelyn pressed her heels into her horse, leaving her brother and Lame Lothar to each other’s company . It had been her who had insisted that Jeyne remain at Riverrun, when Robb would sooner have kept her by his side . But all the same, he resents me for it, but some part of him blames me .
Ser Raynald was a cheerful young knight who swore no insult of Walder Frey’s could possibly provoke him . Catelyn had her fears on that score, though . Ser Brynden would hold the Trident if any man could .
Ser Brynden had played a part in every victory her son had won . Galbart Glover took command of the scouts and outriders in his place . Catelyn traveled in the main column, surrounded by plodding warhorses with steelclad men on their backs .
Lady Maege Mormont rode beneath leaden skies with hoods pulled up to keep the water from their eyes . It was a heavy rain, turning roads to mud and fields to quagmires, swelling the rivers and stripping the trees of their leaves . The constant patter made idle chatter more bother than it was worth so men spoke only when they had something to say .
The northmen did not lack for courage, but they were far from home, with little enough to sustain them but for their faith in their young king . That faith must be protected, at all costs. I must be strong for Robb. If I despair, my grief will consume me. Everything would turn on this marriage .
Edmure avoided her entirely on the march, preferring the company of Marq Piper, Lymond Goodbrook, Patrek Mallister, and the young Vances . Catelyn regretted her rebuke, the first time she had laid eyes on Eddard Stark . She had pictured him as a younger version of Brandon, but that was wrong .
Theon Greyjoy fought at Robb’s side, and boasted of how he had almost crossed swords with the Kingslayer . Amidst the tumbles of rock, Catelyn spied brightly colored cloth and bits of shiny metal . She saw a face peering out at her, the shape of the skull emerging from beneath the melting brown flesh.
Galbart Glover and two of his bolder men had tried swimming their mounts across the turbulent Blue Fork at Ramsford . Two of the horses had been swept under and drowned, and one of the riders managed to cling to a rock until they could pull him in . “The river hasn’t run this high since spring,” said Edmure .
"Lord Walder will wait, I’m sure," said Catelyn . "I hope Bolton got across the Trident before the rains began. The kingsroad runs straight north, he’ll have an easy march . The Twins should reach the Twins before us," Robb asked .
The lid of the sepulcher had been carved into a likeness of the man whose bones lay beneath, but the rain and the wind had done their work . The king had worn a beard, they could see, but otherwise his face was smooth and featureless, with only vague suggestions of a mouth, a nose, eyes, and the crown about the temples .
Tristifer ruled from the Trident to the Neck, thousands of years before Jenny and her prince . He fought a hundred battles and won nine-and-ninety, or so the singers say . She put a hand on her son’s shoulder . “His heir failed him.” “It does not always happen the first time.” Though it did with you .
“You must name another heir, until such time as Jeyne gives you a son.” She considered a moment . “Your father’s father had no siblings, but his father had a sister who married a younger son of Lord Raymar Royce, of the junior branch. They had three daughters, all of whom wed Vale lordlings. A Waynwood and a Corbray, for certain. The youngest... it might have been a Templeton, but...” “M
Aegon the Fourth legitimized all his bastards on his deathbed . "I don’t have to. I’m the king." Grey Wind leapt up atop King Tristifer’s crypt, his teeth bared . “No more than Theon Greyjoy would harm Bran or Rickon?” Grey Wind walked off .
Catelyn thought wearily, as she stood alone by Tristifer’s stone sepulcher . She might have wept then, had not the sky begun to do it for her . In the days that followed, Robb was everywhere and anywhere . Men said proudly that the Young Wolf was the first to rise each dawn and the last to sleep at night .
Lady Maege had hair like spun gold, that Lynesse. Skin like cream . "Nor her teats for giving suck," her mother said bluntly .
Lord Jason Mallister caught up with them amidst the bogs of Hag’s Mire . There was more than an hour of daylight remaining when he rode up with his column, but Robb called a halt at once . The Greatjon was with him, along with Galbart Glover, Maege Mormont, Edmure, and a man that Catelyn did not know .
Lord Jason has brought us the captain of the Myraham, a merchanter out of Oldtown. “Aye, Your Grace.” He licked his thick lips nervously. “My last port of call, that was Lordsport on Pyke. The ironmen kept me there more’n half a year, they did. Balon Greyjoy?” Catelyn’s heart skipped a beat .
Euron Crow’s Eye is no man’s notion of a king, if half of what Theon said of him was true . Theon is the rightful heir, unless he’s dead... but Victarion commands the Iron Fleet . "There’s a daughter as well," Galbart Glover reminded him .
The ironborn will be setting sail toward Pyke, I expect. Every captain a king on his own deck. They will all want a voice in the succession. There are endless sandbars, deadfalls, and tangles of rotting trees.
“You cannot mean to attack up the causeway, Your Grace,” said Galbart Glover . “The approaches are too narrow. There is no way to deploy. No one has ever taken the Moat.” “From the south,” said Robb .
Howland Reed is to send guides to me, two days after I have started up the causeway . Three hosts will leave the Twins, but only two will reach Moat Cailin . "I like this plan," said the Greatjon. "We will be no worse than before. But they will not fail."
Lady Catelyn turned to her son. “I mean no offense to Lord Jason,” she said stiffly . “You would make me a prisoner,” Lord Jason Mallister said .
Whitetree was on maps he’d drawn, on their way north . He wanted that so badly that he forgot his feet for a little bit . Sam even forgot about Lord Mormont and Craster and the wights and the Others .
Sam left Gilly in the longhall to make a fire while he poked his head into the hovels . Gilly bound up the gash for him, but his hand was stiff and sore . It was so cold that he hated taking off his gloves . Jon had searched the huts at Whitetree, on their way north .
Sam had been a hopeless hunter even at Horn Hill . His efforts at fishing the lakes and half-frozen streams had been dismal failures . Sam has a little son. He’s as hungry as we are .
We went too far east to get around that lake, he fretted, or maybe too far west when I tried to double back . It was easier to follow a game trail than to struggle through the brush, easier to circle a ridge instead of climbing it . If Bannen or Dywen were with us we’d be at Castle Black by now .
The Wall is all ice, but the castles are stone and wood . There are tall towers and deep vaults and a huge longhall with a great fire burning in the hearth, day and night . Sam peeled a glove off to wriggle his own fingers near the flames . “Sometimes one of the brothers will sing,” he said, to take his mind off the pain .
The Father's face is stern and strong, he weighs our lives, the short and long, and loves the little children . The Mother gives the gift of life, and watches over every wife. The Crone is very wise and old, and sees our fates as they unfold.
Lord Randyll sung the song with his mother to lull baby Dickon to sleep . Gilly’s babe had gone to sleep. He was so quiet that Sam feared for him . He had asked Gilly about that, but she said it was bad luck to name a child before he was two .
Sam begged her pardon and went out to look after the horse . He had to break the thin scum of ice on top of the stream so the horse could get a drink . Gilly would keep going even if that happened . The girl was very brave, not like him .
Lord Randyll scowled, disbelieving. His dreams were strange that night . It was Sam’s castle now, but his father was not there . He woke suddenly, in cold and dread .
Gilly sat beside the fire, hugging her babe . The longball was dark with shadows, black and blacker . It’s nothing, he told himself. This is still a dream, Sam prayed .
Gilly scrabbled backward across the hard dirt floor . The raven on his shoulder ripped a strip of flesh from his pale ruined cheek . Sam backed off until he came up against a rough log wall . Small Paul had never been quick even when he’d been alive .
Samwell Tarly threw himself forward and plunged the dagger down into Small Paul's back . The raven gave a shriek and took to the air, tearing rents in Paul’s heavy black cloak . Sam dropped the useless hilt and took a hasty step backwards .
Small Paul was big and powerful, but he outweighed him . The sudden shift sent him staggering back a step, and the living man and the dead one went crashing down together . He twisted his neck around, looking for his knife, and saw a dull orange glow . Sam wrenched himself sideways, pulling Paul with him... his arms flailed against the dirt floor, groping, reaching, scattering the ashes, until at last they found something hot .
There were a dozen of them, a score, more... some had been wildlings once, and still wore skins and hides... but more had been his brothers . They had torn the poor garron apart, and were pulling out her entrails with dripping red hands . Sam Tarly heard the dark red leaves of the weirwood rustling, whispering to one another in a tongue he did not know .
Sam took Gilly by the hand and pulled her away from the weirwood . The shout cut through the night, through the shrieks of a thousand ravens . A hood shadowed his face. The creature sank to his knees to let them mount .
Sandor Clegane had warned her not to talk back . “The next time you hit me, I’ll tie your hands behind your back,” he’d said . "We can ride double, or I can throw you across the back of the horse trussed up like a sow for slaughter."
Arya had screamed at the Hound when he flung the rock into the bushes . He yanked her within an inch of his burned face . The Hound was Joffrey’s dog; he was taking her back to the Red Keep .
Lord Roote stables Old King Andahar’s two-headed water horse . Arya had never seen a horse with two heads either . She had had enough of it stinging her eyes half-blind and washing down her cheeks .
Arya was soaked to the bone, saddle-sore, sniffling, and achy . She had a fever too, and sometimes shivered uncontrollably . When she told the Hound that she was sick he’d only snarled at her . Half the time he slept in the saddle now trusting his stallion to follow whatever rutted farm track or game trail they were on .
Arya saw, and below one arched window a wide flat-bottomed boat was chained up tight . There was a wooden house with a sod roof right in the middle of the deck . A third appeared in the window of the roundtower, clutching a loaded crossbow .
Stranger balked at the water’s edge, but the Hound put his heels into the courser’s flank and urged him up the gangway . The Hound’s mouth gave a twitch. “I need your boat, not your bloody wit.” He dismounted, and pulled Arya down beside him . “Three dragons?” Clegane said .
Arya could tell that he didn’t like what he saw there . He had a dozen men behind him, strong men with oars and hardwood poles in their hands . Together they could overwhelm Sandor Clegane, though he’d likely kill three or four before they took him down .
A dozen men labored at the oars while four more used the long poles to push off whenever they came too close to a rock, a tree, or a sunken house . Arya was getting soaked again, but didn’t care. The man with the crossbow still stood in the window of the roundtower, she saw. His eyes followed her as the ferry slid by underneath .
The river was murky brown with mud and lashed by rain, looking more like soup than water . The ferrymen were rushing forward, poles in hand . A tangle of roots and limbs poked up out of the water as it came, like the reaching arms of a great kraken .
Two of the boatmen somehow caught it with their long poles . One snapped, and the long splintering craaaack made it sound as if the ferry were breaking up beneath them . But the second man managed to give the trunk a hard shove, just enough to deflect it away . The ferry seemed to shudder and Arya slipped, landing painfully on one knee .
Sandor Clegane shoved a crumpled wad of parchment into the boatman’s palm . “Ten of it is yours. I’ll be back for the rest one day, so see you don’t go spending it.” The Hound gave Stranger the spur and galloped off through the rain .
Clegane sliced meat with his dagger, and narrowed his eyes when he caught Arya looking at the knife . "I never beat your sister," the Hound said . “You’re a little fool. What good would it do you if you did get away? You’d just get caught by someone worse.” “I would not,” she said.
Gregor once killed a man for snoring. His own man . When he grinned, the burned side of his face pulled tight . He had no lips on that side, and only the stump of an ear . “I did so know your brother.” Maybe the Mountain was worse .
“You don’t know half as much as you think you do. The Blackwater? Where do you think we’re going?” The scorn in his voice made her hesitate . “Back to King’s Landing,” she said .
"Stupid blind little wolf bitch," his voice was rough and hard as an iron rasp . He reached for his waterskin, took a long pull . “He’ll never take you,” she spat back .
Jon The mare was blown, but Jon couldn’t let up on her . He had to reach the Wall before the Magnar . His leg grew ever more painful .
Jon dismounted at the adjoining stable, half-stumbling from the mare’s back as he shouted two boys awake . He pulled himself onto the black gelding they’d given him, gritting his teeth at the pain in his leg, and rode hard for the north . By then the Wall glowed pink and purple with the first light of dawn .
No sentries challenged him as he rode past the outbuildings . Old snow covered the roof of the Flint Barracks and lay in drifts against the north side of Hardin's Tower . Fingers of soot streaked the Lord Commander’s Tower where the smoke had boiled from the windows .
“I see the last part’s true,” Jon confesses . “Should I be pulling down a sword to gut you, then?” Noye .
Ser Wynton Stout seemed to have forgotten and no one’s been rushing to remind him . The one-armed armorer was hard headed, tough, and well seasoned in war . They limped up to the maester’s door in the long wooden keep beneath the rookery .
Maester Aemon moved slowly, one spotted hand on Clydas’s arm . Around his thin neck his chain hung heavy, gold and silver links glinting amongst iron, lead, tin, and other base metals . The maester was more than a hundred years old; shrunken, frail, hairless, and quite blind .
Lord Commander Mormont was murdered at Craster’s Keep, at the hands of his Sworn Brothers . He remembered the Old Bear as last he’d seen him, standing before his tent with his raven on his arm croaking for corn . “Who was it? Who turned on him?” Donal Noye turned the maester’s blades in the fire .
Had Thoren Smallwood survived the Fist, or Ser Ottyn Wythers? No, it will be Cotter Pyke or Ser Denys Mallister . The Mallisters had a bone-deep mistrust of the ironborn, Jon knew . A stab of pain reminded him of his own woes .
"The Magnar’s a lord on Skagos," Noye said . "I was using the word in its older sense, I think," Maester Aemon agreed . “Styr is the Magnar of some place called Thenn," in the far north of the Frostfangs .
Donal Noye held him down, while Clydas helped guide the maester’s hand . The pain was so huge he felt small and weak and helpless inside it . Ygritte, he thought, when the stench of burning flesh was in his nose and his own shriek echoing in her ears .
Giant, Dolorous Edd, Sweet Donnel Hill, Ulmer, Left Hand Lew, Garth Greyfeather . “Sam?” Grenn looked away. “He killed one of the Others, Jon. I saw it. He stabbed him with that dragonglass knife you made him. He hated that.” “We left him.” “I shook him and screamed at him, even slapped his face.” Dirk and Ollo were tearing up the
Maester Aemon shuffled to the bedside, one hand on Grenn’s shoulder . “Jon, be gentle with yourself. It is good that you have woken, but you must give yourself time to heal.” “I can’t.” Jon fought through the pain to sit . Balon Greyjoy has crowned himself again and sent his longships against the north .
Jon had never liked Theon Greyjoy, but had been their father’s ward . Another spasm of pain twisted up his leg, and the next he knew he was flat on his back again . "There’s some mistake," he insisted .
Ygritte was with him, laughing at him, shedding her skins till she was naked as her name day . He was the blood of Winterfell, a man of the Night’s Watch . I will not father a bastard, he told her .
The Frey stronghold was not one castle but two; mirror images in wet stone standing on opposite sides of the water . From the center of its span rose the Water Tower, the river running straight and swift below . Catelyn could see several thousand men encamped around the eastern castle .
Four Freys rode out from the western gatehouse, wrapped in thick grey wool . Catelyn recognized Ser Ryman, son of the late Ser Stevron, Lord Walder’s firstborn . The face she saw beneath his hood was fleshy, broad, and stupid .
Ser Ryman dismounted to help Petyr Pimple back to his feet . The Freys made no sign of obeisance . Jeyne Westerling smiled apologetically .
Lord Edmure Tully edged his horse forward . "Your lord father is most kind. My men will thank him. They have had a long wet ride," said Edwyn Frey . The Late Lord Frey might have seen fit to welcome us in person .
Grey Wind balked in the middle of the drawbridge, shook the rain off, and howled at the portcullis . Robb had to squat and speak softly to the wolf before he would consent to pass beneath the river . "He’s a direwolf, not a dog," said Walder Rivers .
Lord Walder's brood had fathered a halfwit long years ago . His mouth split in a toothless smile as he eyed Robb's crown . Heh seemed to please the lackwit, who bobbed his head from side to side .
Lord Walder shifted his gaze to the others . "You’re the fifth Lord Tully I’ve known. I outlived the other four, heh. Your bride’s about here somewhere. You’ll have it. But clothed. She’s a modest girl, and a maid. You won’t see her naked till the bedding."
The young remember nothing when they see a pretty face and a nice firm pair of teats . They’d be wrong, though, wrong as you were, but now you’re here to make amends. It was my girls you spurned, though . Lord Walder named the names.
The maester shaved her hair off, but swears it will soon grow back . “I’m Ser Aemon Rivers’s Walda, lord great grandfather.” She curtsied . Lord Walder glanced to Robb, as Jinglebell bobbed his head and chimed .
Lord Walder wore no bells and bobbed his wrinkled pink head up and down . She was small for her years, her skin as white as if she had just risen from a milk bath . Her face was comely, with a small chin, delicate nose, and brown eyes .
Roslin had a small gap between two of her front teeth that made her shy with her smiles . But the flaw was almost endearing, and she comes of Rosby stock . The Crakehalls have always been a big-boned family, and strong .
“They’ve crossed before, haven’t they? You wanted crossing and I gave it to you, and you never said mayhaps, heh. But suit yourself.” “My lord!” Catelyn had almost forgotten . “Some food would be most welcome. We have ridden many leagues in the rain.” Walder Frey’s mouth moved in and out .
The bridal chamber was large and richly appointed, dominated by a great featherbed with corner posts carved in the likeness of castle towers . Catelyn’s own room was smaller, but handsomely furnished and comfortable, with a fire burning in the hearth . Lord Jason would show her every courtesy, but the prospect still depressed her .
Lysa had wept lakes the morning of their own wedding, though she had managed to be dry-eyed and radiant when Jon Arryn swept his cream-and-blue cloak about her shoulders . “I know there are more important things, spare me the sermon, septa. Even so... did you see some of those other maids Frey trotted out? The one with the twitch? And those twins had more craters and eruptions on their faces than Pety
Catelyn yawned, reluctantly, to her own room . The chest of clothes she brought from Riverrun had been carried up and laid at the foot of the bed . She donned a warm wool dress of Tully red and blue, washed and brushed her hair .
Ser Perwyn escorted her from the hall, up some steps, and across a covered bridge to another stair . Catelyn half expected that the maester would be another son of Walder Frey’s, but Brenett did not have the look . He was a great fat man, bald and double-chinned and none too clean .
Lord Edmure will have more sons than he knows what to do with . Catelyn did not return to her own room after leaving the maester . She found Robin Flint and Ser Wendel Manderly with him .
"Your bastard was accused of grievous crimes," Catelyn reminded him sharply . He swears that he shall not sheathe his sword so long as a single Greyjoy remains in the north . If the war is done, His Grace must weigh and judge .
“He is Balon Greyjoy’s only living son,” Lord Bolton said softly . “Whoever wins the Seastone Chair will want Theon greyjoy dead,” Bolton pointed out . He has a better claim than any of his uncles .
Gregor Clegane was always ill news, Catelyn reflected . "I left six hundred men at the ford. Spearmen from the rills, the mountains, and the White Knife, a hundred Hornwood longbows, some freeriders and hedge knights. So long as the river runs high, Ser Gregor will not cross," said Robb. "Your Grace is too kind. I suffered grievous losses on the Green Fork," Lord Bolton agreed .
Arya The outriders came on them an hour from the Green Fork . The wayn was slogging down a muddy road . He looked like some down-at-heels farmer . And behind them were four squat casks of salt pork .
Arya had always pictured grey-cloaked men with direwolf on their breasts . The closest thing to a pitchfork she had ever seen at Winterfell was the trident in the hand of Lord Manderly’s merman .
Sandor Clegane’s burns would not be easy to forget, once you saw them . He couldn’t hide the scars behind a helm, not so long as the helm was made in the shape of a dog . It took several moments for the team to pull them free again .
A farmer cursed him for a robber, he said, “No, a forager. Be grateful you get to keep your smallclothes. Now take those boots off. Or I’ll take your legs off. Your choice.” The farmer was as big as Clegane, but all the same he chose to give up his boots and keep his legs . Evenfall found them still trudging toward the Green Fork and Lord Frey’s twin castles . She knew she ought to be
Roose Bolton had fled Harrenhal to get away from Bolton as much as from the Bloody Mummers . She’d had to cut the throat of one of his guards to escape . Robb won’t know me either, I bet. Or even Mother .
The Hound made a sound that might have been a laugh . "There’s old deaf women complaining of the din, I’ll warrant. I’d heard Walder Frey’s eyes were failing," Arya observed .
Arya spotted a yellow tent with six acorns on its panels, three over two over one . There were barracks tents too, big enough to shelter two score footsoldiers . The music grew still louder as they approached the castle, but under that was a deeper, darker sound .
Arya saw a half-dressed girl burst from a tent laughing, but the tent was pale blue, not grey like she’d thought at first . A maester crossed their path, but he was too young and thin to be Maester Luwin . Through the haze of rain, the Twins looked spooky and mysterious, like something from Old Nan’s tales, but they weren’t Winterfell .
Firepits were dug outside the feast tents, sheltered beneath rude canopies of woven wood and hides that kept the rain out . Sandor Clegane knew them by their beards, by their faces and by their cloaks of bearskin and sealskin . "Your brother will be in the castle," she said. "I bet there are Winterfell men too."
Walder Frey must be deaf as a stone to call this music . Catelyn sipped a cup of wine and watched Jinglebell prance to the sounds of “Alysanne” Outside the rain still fell, but within the Twins the air was thick and hot . A fire roared in the hearth and rows of torches burned smokily .
Catelyn ate a thin leek soup, followed by a salad of green beans, onions, and beets . It was poor fare to set before a king, and the calves’ brains turned his stomach . But Robb ate it uncomplaining, and her brother was too caught up with his bride to pay much attention .
Robb was seated between Alyx Frey and Fair Walda, two of the more nubile Frey maidens . He had danced with each of the girls, with Edmure’s bride and the eighth Lady Frey, with the pimply twins Serra and Sarra .
Lady Walda Bolton shouted to be heard above the music . The Lord of the Dreadfort paid the chatter no mind, Catelyn saw . Sometimes he tasted a bite of this, a spoon of that, tearing bread from the loaf .
Robb would be off to another battle, this time with the ironmen at Moat Cailin . Strange, how that prospect seemed almost a relief. He wins all his battles, and the ironborn are without a king . Lord Walder refused to allow him in the hall .
Petyr fell from his horse, fell. I lost a wife the same way, falling . Bastard Walder’s mother, yes, now I recall . Give me another apology in place of a grandson? No, no, no .
Lord Walder exiled his baseborn children and their offspring to that side of the river . Some guests were no doubt stealing off to see if the bastards were having a better time than they were . The Freys had provided wagons of wine, ale and mead, so the common soldiers could drink to the wedding of Riverrun and the Twins .
Catelyn turned back to Ser Ryman. “I had heard that one of your cousins was a singer.” “Alesander. Symond’s son. Alyx is his sister.” He raised a cup toward where she danced with Robin Flint. “Will Alesander be playing for us tonight?” Cateyn watched him stagger toward the door . Elsewhere in the hall, Ser Marq Piper and Ser Danwell Frey played a drinking game .
Seated betwixt his black oak towers, Lord Walder clapped his hands together . The noise was so faint that even those on the dais scarce heard it . Ser Aenys and Ser Hosteen joined them, then Marq Piper and Ser Danwell and Ser Raymund .
Alyx Frey hopped from foot to foot, his own crown ringing . “I hear Tully men have trout between their legs instead of cocks,” Jinglebell called out boldly .
Catelyn felt sorry for the girl. Most brides tried to return the banter, or at least pretended to enjoy it . But Roslin was stiff with terror, clutching the Greatjon as if she feared he might drop her . I hope Edmure is gentle with the poor child .
Dacey Mormont stepped up behind Edwyn Frey, and touched him lightly on the arm as she said something in his ear . Catelyn got slowly to her feet, where an instant before had been only weariness . It is nothing, she tried to tell herself, you are seeing grumkins in the woodpile .
Edwyn Frey shoved her aside as a quarrel sprouted from his side . If he screamed then, the sound was swallowed by the pipes and horns and fiddles . Catelyn saw a second bolt pierce his leg, saw him fall .
The Smalljon bludgeoned Ser Raymund Frey across the face with a leg of mutton . But when he reached for his swordbelt a crossbow bolt drove him to his knees . She saw Lucas Blackwood cut down by Black Walder as he was wrestling with Ser Harys Haigh.
I will kill Walder Frey, she told herself . Jinglebell was closer to the knife, but he only cringed away as she snatched up the blade . Then the tabletop that the Smalljon had flung over Robb shifted .
Lord Walder peered at her in mistrust . “Only a fool would believe such blather.” “No.” Robb’s voice was whisper faint. “Mother, no...” “Yes. Robb, get up. Get up, please, please. Save yourself... if not for me, for Jeyne.” “Go to him. Now.” “Lord Walder!” she shouted. “LORD WALDER!” The drum beat slow and sonorous .
Ser Ryman and Black Walder were circling round her back, but Catelyn did not care . It was Robb she feared for, but it was her honor as a Tully . The knife trembled in her hand, slippery with sweat .
Catelyn Stark raised her hands and watched the blood run down her fingers, over her wrists, beneath the sleeves of her gown . Slow red worms crawled along her arms and under her clothes . It tickles. That made her laugh until she screamed . Arya The feast tents were behind them now .
Arya roared at her, slamming the heel of his hand into her shoulder to knock her sideways . She landed light, the way Syrio taught her, and bounced up at once with a face full of mud . It was only then that she heard the riders pouring out the castle gate in a river of steel and fire . Men and mounts wore plate armor, and one in every ten carried a torch .
Arya saw that there were only two of the huge feast tents where once there had been three . The one in the middle had collapsed, and now the other two were collapsing . A flight of fire arrows streaked through the air, and then the third .
Clegane cut Stranger loose with a single slash of his sword and leapt onto his back . The courser knew what was wanted of him. He pricked up his ears and wheeled toward the charging destriers . Arya had prayed a hundred hundred times for the Hound to die, but now there was a rock in her hand .
Arya threw the rock, the way she'd once thrown a crabapple at Gendry . It was enough to break his charge, but no more . She retreated, darting across the muddy ground on the balls of her feet .
The flames from the feasting tents reached halfway up the sky . Some of the barracks tents were burning too, and half a hundred silk pavilions were singing . Stranger tossed his head impatiently, his nostrils flaring at the scent of blood .
Arya ran faster than she had ever run before, her head down and her feet churning up the river . The pease are overcooked, his wife ventured once . It was a jest, but Sansa took it for criticism .
Podrick Payne spooned so many pease onto his plate that Tyrion lost sight of his mutton . So many suppers ended in a strained silence, as many of them did . He had settled Prince Oberyn and his lords in cornerfort facing the city .
Tyrion found all this piety excessive, but in her place he might want the help of the gods as well . “You... you are kind to offer, but... there are no devotions, my lord. No priests or songs or candles. Only trees, and silent prayer. You would be bored.” “No doubt you’re right.” She knows me better than I thought . It was all very well to talk of breeding dragons instead of locking them up in the treasury .
Cersei, Ser Kevan, and Grand Maester Pycelle gathered about Lord Tywin and the king . He closed the ledgers gratefully, blew out the oil lamp, tied a cloak around his shoulders, and waddled across the castle to the Tower of the Hand . The wind was brisk, just as he’d warned Sansa, and there was a smell of rain in the air .
Tyrion thought of his child wife, praying in the godswood even now . The old gods paid no more heed to prayer than the new ones, it would seem . “Wars do not win themselves,” Lord Tywin warned them .
Gregor Clegane wondered if Petyr Baelish had reached the Vale yet . But when had the gods ever been especially good? “They should all be put to the sword,” Joffrey declared suddenly . “I want them killed, Grandfather. I won’t have any generous terms.” The king turned to Grand Maester Pycelle .
Lord Tywin ignored that; it was Joffrey he addressed . "Ser Ilyn never dared provoke Aerys the way your Imp provokes Joff," said Cersei . When your enemies defy you, you must serve them steel and fire .
Lord Tywin said: “A strong king acts boldly, he doesn’t just talk.” “Ser Kevan, I can see the king is tired. Please see him safely back to his bedchamber.” “Dreamwine, my lord?” Joffrey insisted . “Joff has always been willful, I did warn you...” Cersei said, when the door was shut .
Lord Tywin waved two fingers at her, a brusque dismissal . “The boy is thirteen. There is time yet.” Tyrion had gotten his own sharp lesson at thirteen . He felt almost sorry for his nephew .
Lord Tywin seated himself again and said, “I was made to suffer my father’s follies. I will not suffer yours. Enough” . “I’ll hear no more of this. I have been considering how best to appease Oberyn Martell and his entourage.” “Is this something I’m allowed to know, or should I leave so you can discuss it with yourself?” His father ignored the sally.
Ser Gregor has served us well. No other knight in the realm inspires such terror in our enemies . “He knows nothing. He has heard tales. Stable gossip and kitchen calumnies.” He has no crumb of proof. “Ser Amory Lorch is dead,” Tyrion said flatly .
Lord Tywin stared at him as if he had lost his wits . "You deserve that motley, then. We had come late to Robert’s cause. It was necessary to demonstrate our loyalty," Tywin said .
Ned Stark's van was rushing south from the Trident, and I feared it might come to swords between us. And it was in Aerys to murder Jaime, with no more cause than spite. He closed a fist . There is no blood in Tywin Lannister .
Lord Bolton will wed the girl to his bastard son . The north will go to your son by Sansa Stark if you ever find enough manhood in you to breed one .
Tyrion asked his father in tones that dripped acid . “Before or after I tell her how we murdered her mother and her brother?” Davos asked . He stared at his Painted Table with teeth clenched hard .
“No man may withstand him!” the queen cried . “The wolf leaves no heirs, the kraken too many. The lions will devour them unless... Saan, I will require your fastest ships to carry envoys to the Iron Islands and White Harbor. I shall offer pardons.” “They will not.” “More?” Stannis looked as though he would gladly have throttled her .
Queen Selyse said, “you have more men than Aegon did three hundred years ago. All you lack are dragons.” The look Stannis gave her was dark. “No of these was the chosen of R’hllor. No red comet blazed across the heavens to herald their coming. None wielded Lightbringer, the red sword of heroes.” “The boy,” Ser Axell echoed the words. “I was sick unto death of this wretched
Queen Selyse went down on both knees before the king, hands clasped as if in prayer . King Stannis put a hand on her shoulder, awkwardly untangling himself .
Melisandre's mouth made a hard red line . "I know little of dragons and less of gods... but the queen spoke of curses," Stannis admits .
“Only death can pay for life, my lord. A great gift requires a great sacrifice.” “He has kings’ blood in his veins. You have seen what even a little of that blood could do—” “I saw you burn some leeches.” “Do you doubt the power of R’hllor?” No. Davos remembered too well the living shadow that had squirmed from out her womb beneath Storm’s End, its black hands pressing at her thighs 
"Why? Two is not three. Kings can count as well as smugglers. You may go." Stannis turned his back on them . Selyse swept stiffly from the chamber, the red woman trailing behind .
Melisandre swears that she has seen me in her flames, facing the dark with Lightbringer raised on high . “Your Grace,” said Davos, “the cost...” “I know the cost! I saw things in the flames as well. I saw a king, a crown of fire on his brows, burning... burning... ash. “If Joffrey should die... what is the life of one bastard boy against a kingdom?” Stannis said softly .
A wind blew briskly from the cast, making the banners snap and flap noisily along the walls . Davos could smell salt in the air. The sea. It made him want to walk a deck again, to raise his canvas and sail off south to Marya and his two small ones . Part of him wanted nothing so much as to take Devan and go home .
Davos turned to find Salladhor Saan beside him . “Does this mean you have forgiven my treachery, Salla?” The old pirate wagged a finger at him. “Forgiving, yes. Forgetting, no. When I die impoverished, my wives and concubines will curse you, Onion Lord. I am not tasting a sea eagle he had trained to fly from the wrist, and a magic horn to summon kraken
King's men, not queen’s men. But it would not do to boast of them . Ser Gerald Gower was the king’s cousin, and had served as his squire years ago .
Davos slapped Salla on the back as he climbed the steps of Sea Dragon Tower to the maester’s chambers below the rookery . He did not need Salla to tell him that he had risen too high . “You are a notable captain,” Maester Pylos replied .
The King’s Hand should be a highborn lord, someone wise and learned, a battle commander or a great knight . Septon Murmison’s prayers worked miracles, but as Hand he soon had the whole realm praying for his death . As for birth, the dragonkings oft chose Hands from amongst their own blood .
Davos was the King's Hand now, and a King’s Hand should read . The narrow twisting steps of Sea Dragon Tower had been a sore trial to Maester Cressen after he broke his hip .
Dough-soft and slump-shouldered, patchface wore a helm made of a rack of deer antlers . A dozen bells hung from the tines and rang when he moved . Pylos had exiled him from Shireen’s lessons .
Devan will be a lord now, not merely a knight. The Lord of the Rainwood. Davos took more pride in that than in wearing the title himself. He reads and writes, as if he had been born to it.
Edric Storm was three inches taller and broader in the chest and shoulders . He was his father’s son in that; nor did he miss a morning’s work with sword and shield . The bastard boy had more of their look than Stannis had ever shared . “Good morrow, my lord,” Edric echoed .
Lords Grandison, Cafferen, and Fell planned to join their strength at Summerhall and march on Storm’s End . He slew Lord Fell in single combat and captured his son Silveraxe . “Edric, you ought not boast,” Maester Pylos said .
Maester Pylos rummaged about his table, unrolling and discarding various scraps of parchment . “There are no new letters. Perhaps an old one...” Davos had not named him Hand for his enjoyment . The best way to learn a thing was to do it, he had found; sails or scrolls .
Davos turned the letter over, and saw that the wax that had sealed it had been black . “I brought it to Lord Alester when it first arrived. He was the Hand then. I believed he discussed it with the queen. ‘His Grace lacks the men to fight his own battles, he has none to waste on wildlings,” he said .
Davos traded at Eastwatch in his smuggling days . He had never forgotten how the Blind Bastard’s head had rolled across the Cobblecat’s deck . “Men are men,” Maester Pylos agreed .
Azor Ahai tempered Lightbringer by thrusting it through the heart of his wife . He slew his wife to fight the dark . “I was thinking, Maester. My pardons.” What harm if some wildling king conquers the north?
Jon had told his little sister something like that once, he remembered . He could see the kingsroad wending its way south through stony brown fields and over windswept hills . The Magnar would be coming up that road before the day was done .
Men in black cloaks were visible on other roofs and tower tops . Donal Noye had placed them on every tower and in half the windows . Some were even clutching spears, or had crossbows cocked under their arms .
Jon used the crutch to limp across the tower top . The King’s Tower was not the castle’s tallest . It was tall enough, strong enough, and well placed beside the Wall .
The Night’s Watch is pledged to take no part in the quarrels of the realm . Over the centuries certain Lords Commander, more proud than wise, forgot their vows and near destroyed us all with their ambitions . Lord Commander Rodrik Flint thought to make himself King-beyond-the-Wall .
Castle Black had a wall of sorts at last, a crescent-shaped barricade ten feet high made of stores; casks of nails and barrels of salt mutton, crates, bales of black broadcloth, stacked logs, sawn timbers, fire-hardened stakes, and sacks of grain . The last few moles were still making the long climb, Jon saw, urged on by his brothers .
Jon was a bastard, after all, having been born of lust and deceit . He had once threatened to have Ghost rip his throat out unless he stopped tormenting Samwell Tarly . Donal Noye roared at three of the Mole’s Town men, down below . "No, you poxy plow pushers, NOW!"
Donal Noye had decreed that every man still spry enough to hold a spear or swing an axe would help defend the barricade . Three-Finger Hobb suddenly had more spit boys, kettle stirrers, and onion choppers than he knew what to do with . The Frostfangs are cold. This is a brisk autumn day.
Owen the Oaf popped up out of the trapdoor, red-faced from the climb . He had a basket of buns under one arm, a wheel of cheese under the other . The buns were warm from the oven when he went digging in the basket and plucked one out .
Wildlings at the gate, the message ran. The realm in danger . Send all the help you can to Castle Black, Even as far as Oldtown and the Citadel the ravens flew .
Clydas and Maester Aemon rode the winch cage up to safety at the top of the Wall . Deaf Dick Follard curled up beneath his cloak and went to sleep . Owen the Oaf returned with a loaf of black bread and a pail of Hobb’s best mutton .
Jon sat between two merlons with only a scarecrow for company and watched the Stallion gallop up the sky . He wondered about Ghost as well, and told himself that way lay madness . Satin pissed himself when the horns blew, but Jon pretended not to notice .
Jon had never been half the hunter that Theon Greyjoy was . There were dark shapes slipping around the armory, backs against the stone, but he could not see them well enough to waste an arrow . Thenns carried shields of black boiled leather with bronze rims and bosses .
Jon dropped a wildling archer as he was fitting an arrow to his string . He then sent a shaft toward the axeman hacking at Hardin’s Tower . It was only as Jon was running off that recognized Big Boil .
Three-Finger Hobb and Mole’s Town helpers were safe atop the Wall, he knew . It felt like a punch in the belly all the same . Deaf Dick hopped up on the crenel for a better shot, jerked his crossbow to his shoulder .
Fifty of them were pounding up the kingsroad in tight column, their shields held up above their heads . Others were swarming through the vegetable garden, across the flagstone yard, around the old dry well . Three had hacked their way through the doors of Maester Aemon’s apartments in the timber keep below the rookery, and a desperate fight was going on atop the Silent Tower, longswords against bronze axes .
Jon and Satin chanced to choose the same target . He had just reached the top of the barricade when an arrow sprouted from his neck and a quarrel between his shoulder blades . Half a heartbeat later a longsword took him in the belly and fell back onto the man behind him . There was no time to think or plan or shout for help.
A dozen black brothers and a few Mole’s Town men stood atop the crates and barrels, but the wildlings were swarming over all along the crescent . Jon saw one shove his spear up through Rast’s belly so hard he lifted him into the air . A bronze axe caught him just below the knee and the laughter turned into a bubbling shriek .
Satin was loosing quarrels at the wildlings on the steps, then ducking down behind a merlon to cock the crossbow . Noye had put spearmen on the two lowest landings, but the headlong flight of the villagers had panicked them . Thenns killed anyone who fell behind .
Lord Eddard had told Jon once that running man is like a wounded animal to a soldier . The archers on the fifth landing fled before the battle even reached them . There were four of them stacked beside the fire, their heads wrapped in oily rags . He thrust one torch into the fire until it was blazing brightly .
Jon notched a fire arrow to his bowstring, and Satin lit it from the torch . He stepped to the parapet, drew, aimed, loosed . Ribbons of flame trailed behind as the shaft sped downward and thudded into its target .
Wind and fire did the rest. Some continued upward, and died . Some stayed where they were. Some died as well . Twenty-odd Thenns were still huddled together between the fires when the ice cracked from the heat .
He found Ygritte sprawled across a patch of old snow beneath the Lord Commander’s Tower . The arrow was black, Jon saw, but it was fletched with white duck feathers . It sounded as though the arrow had found a lung . “You’re kissed by fire, remember? Lucky. It will take more than an arrow to kill you,” she said .
The Nightfort had figured in some of Old Nan’s scariest stories . It was here that Night’s King had reigned, before his name was wiped from the memory of man . This was where the Rat Cook had served the Andal king his prince-and-bacon pie .
Benjen Stark never said the tales were true, but he never said they weren’t . The wind made a nervous whistling sound as it shivered through broken towers . He could hear rats scrabbling under the floor of the great hall .
The nightfort guarded had been sealed since the day the black brothers had loaded up their mules and garrons and departed for Deep Lake . The iron portcullis lowered, the chains that raised it carried off, the tunnel packed with stone and rubble all frozen together until they were as impenetrable as the Wall itself . “We dare not, my prince,” Jojen said when he saw it .
The wildlings took their sweet time about departing the next morning, stripping the bodies of their dead and the old man they’d killed . There was a scary moment when three of them found the causeway and started to walk out... but the path turned and they didn’t, and two of them nearly drowned before the others pulled them out . The tall bald man yelled at them, his words echoing across the water in some tongue .
The Wall could look like stone, all grey and pitted, but then the clouds would break and the sun would hit it differently . It was the end of the world, Old Nan always said. On the other side were monsters and giants and ghouls, but they could not pass so long as the Wall stood strong .
Meera Reed was very surefooted, but even so she was going slowly, moving from nub to nub . When she reached the top, crawling up the icy knobs that were all that remained of the highest steps, Meera vanished from his sight . “When she is ready. She will want to have a good look... at the Wall and what’s beyond.” “We might find something,” Jojen insisted .
Deep Lake stood as empty as the castle it had replaced, and the Nightfort... “There are ghosts here,” Bran said . Lord Ryswell had holes hewn in the top of the Wall and sealed them up alive in the ice . He’d sent him back to the Wall for honor’s sake, but he loved him still, so he came to share his watch .
The Rat Cook never put in an appearance, nor the seventy-nine sentinels, nor Mad Axe . By the time Meera returned, the sun was only a sword’s breath above the western hills . "Did you see a way down?" asked Jojen .
Bran had been the thirteenth man to lead the Night’s Watch, she said . A woman was his downfall; a woman was glimpsed from atop the Wall . He chased her and caught her and loved her, though her skin was cold as ice .
The Reeds decided that they would sleep in the kitchens, a stone octagon with a broken dome . It looked to offer better shelter than most other buildings, even though a crooked weirwood had burst up through the slate floor beside the huge central well . The roof was mostly there, so they’d be dry if it rained again, but he didn’t think they would ever get warm here .
The well was a good twelve feet across, all stone, with steps built into its side . The walls were damp and covered with niter, but none of them could see the water at the bottom, not even Meera with her sharp hunter’s eyes . “Maybe it doesn’t have a bottom,” Bran said uncertainly .
The Rat Cook had cooked the son of the Andal king in a big pie with onions, carrots, mushrooms, lots of pepper and salt, a rasher of bacon, and a dark red Dornish wine . Then he served him to his father, who praised the taste and had a second slice . He had roamed the Nightfort ever since, devouring his children .
He wriggled beneath his cloak, and whimpered something that might have been “Hodor” Outside the wind was sending armies of dead leaves marching across the courtyards to scratch faintly at the doors and windows . The sounds made him think of Old Nan’s stories .
Old Nan had said of Mad Axe, how he took his boots off and prowled the castle halls barefoot in the dark, with never a sound to tell you where he was . There was no thing that comes in the night, Maester Luwin had said so . If there had ever been such a thing, it was gone from the world now, like giants and dragons .
It was hard to hear over Hodor’s snores and the thumping of his own heart . It was the faint, far-off rattling of ghostly chains? It was definitely footsteps, each one a little louder than the one before . He didn’t hear any dripping, or chains either, but there was something else . The footsteps were coming closer .
He wriggled across the floor, dragging his dead legs behind him until he could reach out and touch Meera Reed on the foot . He pressed a finger to his mouth so she’d know not to speak. He could see that on her face; the echoing footfalls, the faint whimpering, the heavy breathing .
A huge black shape heaved itself up into the darkness and lurched toward the moonlight . The fear rose up in Bran so thick that before he could think of drawing Hodor’s sword the way he’d meant to, he found himself back on the floor again with Hodor roaring “Hodor hodor HODOR.” But the thing that came in the night was screaming too, and thrashing, struggling with the net .
Jojen fed the sticks to the fire and blew on them until the flames leapt up crackling . It was light, and Bran saw the pale thin-faced girl by the lip of the well . “Meera, he’s from the Night’s Watch.” “Hodor?” Hodor squatted down on his haunches to peer at the man in the net .
Meera peeled back one end of her net, and the fat man managed to sit up . He was shaking, Bran saw, and still struggling to catch his breath . “I didn’t know you’d be right at the top of the steps, though.” He touched his belly with a black-gloved hand .
“How did you get through the Wall?” Jojen demanded . “Does the well lead to an underground river, is that where you came from? You’re not even wet...” Sam shook his head. “You won’t. I have to take you.” “Why?” Sam demanded. “If you did it wouldn’t open. Not for you. It’s the Black Gate.” Sam plucked at the faded black wool of his sleeve .
“He’ll be waiting. We should go. Do you have anything warmer to wear? The Black Gate is cold, and the other side of the Wall is even colder. You—” “Why didn’t he come with you?” Meera gestured toward Gilly and her babe . “He... he can’t.” “Why not?” “The Wall. There are spells woven into it... old ones, and strong. He cannot pass so long as the Wall stands strong.” It grew very quiet
Sam looked confused for a moment, but finally said, “I... I can keep a secret. Gilly too.” When he looked at her, the girl nodded . “You’re certain it was Jon? You saw him?” “I’m Meera,” Meera said with a smile. “Summer is...” A shadow detached itself from the broken dome above and leapt down through the moonlight .
Gilly sat nursing her babe by the fire. “You’ll come back for me,” Gilly said to Sam. “As soon as I can,” Sam hesitated at the top. “I’ll go first, I know the way.” Hodor followed, then Summer, then Hodor with Bran riding on his back.
A glow came from the wood, like milk and moonlight, so faint it scarcely seemed to touch anything beyond the door itself . The face was old and pale, wrinkled and shrunken. It looks dead. Its mouth was closed, its eyes were sunken, its brow withered and its chin sagging . “I am the sword in the darkness,” Samwell Tarly said .
Meereen was as large as Astapor and Yunkai combined . She was made with bricks of many colors and in better repair, studded with bastions and anchored by great defensive towers . He rode out the city gates, armored in scales of copper and jet and mounted upon a white charger .
Meereen posed dangers far more serious than one pink-and-white hero shouting insults, and she could not let herself be distracted . She had withdrawn before Dany’s advance, harvesting all they could and burning what they could not harvest . Her host numbered more than eighty thousand after Yunkai, but fewer than a quarter were soldiers .
Oznak zo Pahl taunted the besiegers for an hour, mocking their manhood, mothers, wives, and gods . They watched him dismount his white charger, undo his robes, pull out his manhood and direct a stream of urine in the direction of the olive grove .
Arstan Whitebeard honed Belwas’s arakh every evening and rubbed it down with bright red oil . Strong Belwas squinted down the edge, grunted, slid the blade back into its leather sheath, and tied the swordbelt about his vast waist . The defenders are pissing on slaves, to show how little they fear us, she thought .
Oznak zo Pahl lowered his lance and charged; Belwas stopped with legs spread wide . He wore no armor but his studded leather vest, so absurdly small that it did not cover his nipples .
Oznak thundered toward Strong Belwas, his striped cloak streaming from his shoulders . The Meereenese on the walls screamed even louder as the eunuch spun sideways . "The lance is too long," Ser Jorah said .
Meereen's pink-and-white hero tried to anticipate this time, and swung his lance sideways at the last second to catch Strong Belwas when he dodged . But the eunuch had anticipated too, and this time he dropped down instead of spinning sideways . They heard the charger scream as the blade bit into his legs, and then the horse was falling, the hero tumbling from the saddle .
The eunuch turned his back on the steel-tipped rain, lowered his trousers, squatted, and shat in the direction of the city . The defenders on the walls began firing their crossbows at Belwas, but the bolts fell short or skittered harmlessly along the ground . He paused long enough to loot the hero’s corpse and put the dying horse out of his agony .
Dany scolded him and called him a big bald baby until he let the healer stanch the wound with vinegar, sew it shut, and bind his chest with strips of linen soaked in fire wine . "Let us not forget the gemstones," said Ser Jorah Mormont .
“From wood, Your Grace,” Ser Jorah said . “The slavers have burnt every tree within twenty leagues of here.” “Did you see them bronze heads above the gates?” asked Grey Worm .
Meereen shits into the Skahazadhan but draws its drinking water from deep wells . There are reports of sickness in the camps, fever and brownleg and three cases of the bloody flux . The city is better provisioned than we are, and can be resupplied by water . You cannot free every slave in the world, Khaleesi .
"When cowards hide and burn the food and fodder, great khals must seek for braver foes. This is known," Ko Jhogo said . "You can’t. I am sorry, Khaleesi. They must feed themselves or starve. Many and more will die along the march, yes. That will be hard, but there is no way to save them."
Grey Worm would lead his Unsullied down the sewers if she commanded it, she knew; her bloodriders would do no less . Viserion spread his pale white wings and flapped lazily at his head . The dragon landed awkwardly with one foot on the man’s head and one on his shoulder .
Plumm was a creature of the free companies, an amiable mongrel . He claimed to be part Braavosi, part Summer Islander, part Ibbenese, part Qohorik, part Dornish, and part Westerosi . “Which King Aegon?” Dany asked .
Dany found herself stealing looks at the Tyroshi when her captains came to council . He brought her a flower or a sprig of some plant every evening when he made his report... to help her learn the land, he said . "Go do that," Dany told Drogon, scratching him between the horns .
Dany had a city to take, and dreaming of kisses and some sellsword’s bright blue eyes would not help her breach the walls of Meereen . The thought was exciting and disturbing, both at once . It is too great a risk .
Dany and her companions set out along the shoreline between the Dothraki camp and that of the Unsullied . When the horses had been saddled, Dany could feel Meereen at her back, mocking her .
The eunuchs knelt as she passed, raising clenched fists to their breasts . Balerion floated nearest; the great cog once known as Saduleon, her sails furled . Further out were the galleys Meraxes and Vhagar .
Dany had stopped to speak to a pregnant woman who wanted the Mother of Dragons to name her baby . She saw a tall ragged man with a shaved head and a sunburnt face . Mero wiped his sword on his breeches .
The Titan’s Bastard staggered back into the surf, spitting blood and broken teeth from the ruin of his mouth . The staff thumped Mero’s ribs, sending him reeling . Arstan splashed sideways, parried a looping cut, danced away from a second, checked a third mid-swing .
Ser Jorah gave the old man a long look at the river wall . "I saw no need to frighten you, Your Grace. I have offered a reward for his head," he frowned .
“What truths have you withheld?” Dany asked the exile knight . He betrayed Rhaegar’s memory, and abandoned Viserys to live and die in exile . But if Robert sent you to kill me, why did you save my life?
Ser Barristan says he must die a traitor's death . "I'm sorry I misled you. It was the only way to keep the Lannisters from learning that I had joined you. You are watched, as your brother was." "Tell him he’s mistaken. There’s no informer. Tell him how he got it wrong."
The Undying had said she would be betrayed twice more, once for gold and once for love . Viserion roared, and smoke rose grey from his snout . Drogon beat the air with black wings, and Rhaegal twisted his head back and belched flame .
Tyrion dressed himself in darkness, listening to his wife’s soft breathing from the bed they shared . He had expected anguish and anger when he told her of her brother’s death . It was only later, with a heavy oaken door between them, that he heard her sobbing . The most he could do was to shield her from the uglier details of the Red Wedding .
He had wrapped his cloak around her shoulders and sworn to protect her . But that was as cruel a jape as the crown the Freys had placed atop the head of Robb Stark’s direwolf after they’d sewn it onto his headless corpse . She still went nightly to the godswood to pray, and Tyrion wondered if she were praying for his death . There was this much to be said for his marriage; it had allowed him to escape Maego
Tyrion waddled along a dark passageway until he found the door he wanted, and pushed through . The dragon skulls were waiting, and so was Shae . “M’lord must have played monsters and maidens when he was little.” “No more than I’m a maiden.” She was behind him, her steps soft against the floor .
Tyrion was flushed and out of breath from stumbling into dragon skulls . He felt her breasts pressed against his face in the dark, her stiff little nipples brushing lightly over his lips and the scar where his nose had been . “My giant’s come to save me,” Shae said reluctantly. “It must be near dawn. Sansa will be waking.” She giggled .
"Maybe we’ll have to go naked," Tyrion sat . “You will tell her that the girl is a common camp follower that you acquired before the battle on the Green Fork and brought to King’s Landing against your lord father’s express command. I will not lie to the queen.” “You have lied to her before. I have no fierce sellsword to protect me, no valiant brother to avenge me, only some little birds who whisper in my ear.
A man may have wits, or a bit of meat between his legs, but not both? Tyrion groped through the dragon-haunted darkness for his smallclothes, feeling wretched . The Spider was right, and there was guilt as well . It was not as though he was the first man ever to keep a concubine .
Ser Tallad knew Shae only as a pretty young lady’s maid in service at the castle . Tyrion saw her dimly through the gloom, pulling a woolen sock up a slender leg . I survived the Green Fork and the Blackwater, I can bloody well survive King Joffrey’s wedding .
Sansa That was such a sweet dream, but she thought drowsily . She had been back in Winterfell, running through the godswood with her Lady . Her father had been there, and her brothers, all of them warm and safe . If Lady was here, I would not be afraid. She was alone in the world now .
Sansa was tempted to ask for a cup of wine, to calm her nerves . The wedding was to be at midday in the Great Sept of Baelor across the city .
The Imp’s clothing was soiled and unkempt, Sansa noticed; it looked as though he’d slept in it . Tyrion put the cup aside. “Pod, be so good as to pour me a cup of wine.” “There’s wine here. You don’t expect me to face my sister sober, surely? It’s a new century, my lady. The three hundredth year since Aegon’s Conquest.”
Podrick Payne was a cousin to Ser Ilyn Payne who had taken her father’s head off . When she spoke to him, he turned the most alarming shade of red . “No. I mean, yes.” He blushed. “There’s a tale behind those coins,” said Tyrion .
In the Queen’s Ballroom they broke their fast on honeycakes baked with blackberries and nuts, gammon steaks, bacon, fingerfish crisped in breadcrumbs, autumn pears, and a Dornish dish of onions, cheese, and chopped eggs cooked up with fiery peppers . The queen solemnly presented Joff with the wife’s cloak that he would drape over Margaery’s shoulders . It was traditional in the Reach to give presents to bride and groom on the
Lord Paxter Redwyne brought forth a beautiful wooden model of the war galley of two hundred oars being built even now on the Arbor . Joffrey could be gallant when it suited him, Sansa knew, but it seemed to suit him less and less . But all his courtesy vanished at once when Tyrion presented him with their own gift .
Lady Sansa looked nervously at Tyrion, afraid of what he might say . Lord Mace Tyrell came forward to present his gift: a golden chalice three feet tall . He showed them how each face bore the sigil of one of the great houses .
Lord Tywin waited until last to present the king with his own gift: a longsword . Its scabbard was made of cherrywood, gold, and oiled red leather, studded with golden lions’ heads . The ballroom fell silent as Joffrey unsheathed the blade and thrust the sword above his head .
Joffrey brought Widow’s Wail down in a savage twohanded slice onto the book Tyrion had given him . It took him half a dozen further cuts to hack the thick tome apart . “See that you never turn that wicked edge on me, sire,” Ser Garlan Tyrell said. “You and Lady Sansa owe me a better present, Uncle Imp. This one is all chopped to pieces.” Joff gave him a sharp look .
Prince Oberyn of Dorne fell in beside them, his black-haired paramour on his arm . She had borne two bastard daughters for the prince, but did not fear to look even the queen in the eye .
Baelor the Blessed was a great king. He walked the Boneway barefoot to make peace with Dorne . The vipers refused to strike him because he was pure and holy . “My prince is playing with you, Lady Sansa,” said the woman Ellaria Sand .
“I should have known better. I should have seen... a good many things.” “Perhaps the dagger will please him more.” “Joff quarreled with your brother Robb at Winterfell. Tell me, was there ill feeling between Bran and His Grace as well?” “Bran?” The question confused her. “Before he fell, you mean?” She had to try and think back .
“Your lady mother once accused me... well, I will not burden you with the ugly details.” What does he want me to say? “That is good to know, my lord.” He wanted something from her, but Sansa did not know what it was. He looks like a starving child, but I have no food to give him. “That... that’s kind of you.” “Oh, yes,” said Tyrion. “I am the very soul of kindness. And I know about bad dreams.” And even
Tyrion shifted his weight uncomfortably from one foot to the other . He should have thought to relieve himself before they set out from the Red Keep . The sleepless night he’d spent with Shae was making itself felt too, but most of all he wanted to strangle his bloody royal nephew .
Robert Baratheon had come to Winterfell with a long tail of knights and retainers, a huge wheelhouse, and a baggage train . The blade Joff chose was nice and plain. No goldwork, no jewels in the hilt, no silver inlay on the blade . But the Valyrian steel was deadly sharp... sharp enough to slice through skin, flesh, and muscle in one quick stroke .
Tyrion shifted his weight from one stunted leg to the other, trying to see between his father and his uncle Kevan . If the gods are just, Joff will make a hash of this . He made certain not to look at Sansa, lest his bitterness show in his eyes .
Ser Loras and Ser Meryn led the procession from the sept in their white scale armor and snowy cloaks . The royal couple followed Queen Cersei and Lord Tyrell, then the bride’s mother arm-in-arm with Lord Tywin . Tyrion offered Sansa his arm, but she could feel her stiffness as they walked up the aisle together .
Joffrey and Margaery stood by Kingsguard atop the steps that fronted on the broad marble plaza . Ser Addam and his gold cloaks held back the crowd, while the statue of King Baelor the Blessed gazed down on them benevolently . Tyrion had no choice but to queue up with the rest to offer congratulations .
Tyrion had always had a yen to see the Titan of Braavos . He met a wall of sullen courtesy as icy and unyielding as the Wall he had walked once in the north . It made him weary. Then they passed the rest of the journey in silence .
Ser Gregor Clegane had crossed the Trident and seized the ruby ford . In the west, Ser Daven Lannister had linked up with Ser Forley Prester at the Golden Tooth . Paxter Redwyne claimed his fleet would soon set sail from the Arbor .
Shae was helping Sansa with her hair when they entered the bedchamber . She wore a gown of silvery satin trimmed in vair, with dagged sleeves that almost touched the floor . Tyrion had to bite back his annoyance .
Ser Lancel had been brought down by Ser Kevan, the first time he’d left his sickbed since the battle . He looked ghastly, and his hair had turned white and brittle, and he was thin as a stick . Lady Olenna Tyrell said she was very sorry to hear about your losses . “You are too kind, my lady,” said Sansa .
Lady Olenna was beginning to wonder whether Lord Luthor Tyrell had ridden off that cliff intentionally . She patted Sansa’s hair again and said, “Well, off with you, child, and try to be merrier. Now where have my guardsmen gone? Come help me to the dais.” The royal livery escorted them down the broad central aisle .
Tyrion clutched Sansa’s arm and made the walk with a heavy waddling stride . Let them stare and whisper until they’ve had their fill, I will not hide myself for their sake . The queen of Thorns followed them in, shuffling along with tiny steps .
The Kingsguard escorted them onto the dais, to the seats of honor beneath the shadow of the Iron Throne, draped for the occasion in long silk streamers of Baratheon gold, Lannister crimson, and Tyrell green . Cersei embraced Margaery and kissed her cheeks . The High Septon rose to lead a prayer .
Seventy-seven dishes, while there are still starving children in this city, and men who would kill for a radish . Margaery, of course, smiled sweetly as she and Joffrey shared a drink from the great seven-sided wedding chalice .
Tyrion watched as her husband fed her morsels off his plate . They drank from the same cup, and would kiss often and unpredictably . He wondered what Sansa would do if he leaned over and kissed her right now .
Tyrion listened with half a ear, as he sampled sweetcorn fritters and hot oatbread baked with bits of date, apple, and orange . “Maiden, Mother, and Crone” delighted the High Septon, and “My Lady Wife” pleased all the little girls with romance in their hearts .
Collio Quaynis of Tyrosh had a vermilion beard and an accent as ludicrous as Symon had promised . Tyrion suffered through it with a double helping of honey-ginger partridge and several cups of wine . “Bessa the Barmaid” won them back with its ribald lyrics .
Four master pyromancers conjured up beasts of living flame to tear at each other . They ladeled out bowls of blandissory, beef broth and boiled wine sweetened with honey and dotted with blanched almonds . A juggler kept a half-dozen swords and axes whirling through the air as skewers of blood sausage were brought sizzling to the tables .
Lady Leonette laughed lightly beside Tyrion, and Ser Garlan leaned over to say, “A valiant deed unsung is no less valiant.” “Perhaps you should be a singer, my lord. You rhyme as well as this Galyeon.” “No, my lady, my Lady,” ser Garlan said . “If I am ever Hand again, the first thing I’ll do is hang all the singers,” Tyrion said.
Tyrion drank his way through the last twenty or so, to help resist the urge to stuff mushrooms in his ears . By the time the singer had taken his bows, some of the guests were drunk enough to begin providing unintentional entertainments of their own . Grand Maester Pycelle fell asleep while dancers from the Summer Isles swirled and spun in robes made of bright feathers and smoky silk .
The dwarfs were mounted on an ugly grey dog, long of leg and heavy of jaw . The other rode an immense spotted sow as the little knights bounced up and down in their saddles . One knight was all in gold, with a black stag painted on his shield; the other wore grey and white, and bore a wolf device .
The wolf knight’s lance struck the helm of the stag knight and knocked his head clean off . It spun through the air spattering blood to land in the lap of Lord Gyles . Dogs barked, women shrieked, and Moon Boy made a great show of swaying perilously back and forth .
The dwarfs untangled, no doubt anticipating the royal thanks . The king climbed up on the table. “Uncle! You’ll defend the honor of my realm, won’t you? You can ride the pig!” Tyrion Lannister scowled, confused .
"Your Grace," was all he had time to say before the king upended the chalice over his head . The wine washed down over his face in a red torrent . It drenched his hair, stung his eyes, burned in his wound, and soaked the velvet of his new doublet .
“Your Grace, please.” “I have no wine,” said Margaery . “I would be most honored.” “You won’t joust you’ll be my cupbearer” Joffrey screamed .
King Joffrey and his queen met the great pie below the dais . As Joff drew his sword, Margaery laid a hand on his arm to restrain him . From the shadows at the back of the hall, Ser Ilyn Payne appeared .
Ser Ilyn’s greatsword was as long and wide as Ice . Valyrian steel had a darkness to it, a smokiness in its soul . Joffrey and Margaery joined hands to lift it and swung it down together in a silvery arc .
Tyrion had to climb back onto his chair to reach it . Joff yanked it from his hands and drank long and deep, his throat working as the wine ran purple down his chin . “My uncle hasn’t eaten his pigeon pie.” Holding the chalice, Joff jammed his other into Tyrion’s pie .
Ser Osmund Kettleblack ripped open the king’s collar and began to pound Joffrey on the back . A fearful high thin sound emerged from the boy’s throat, the sound of a man trying to suck a river through a reed; then it stopped . The High Septon began to pray loudly . Grand Maester Pycelle shouted for someone to help him back to his chambers, to fetch his potions .
Tyrion looked to see how Sansa was taking this, but there was so much confusion in the hall that he could not find her . There was still a half-inch of deep purple wine in the bottom of it . Margaery Tyrell was weeping in her grandmother’s arms as the old lady said, “Be brave, be brave.” Most of the musicians had fled, but one last flutist in the gallery was blowing a dirge .
Margaery Tyrell began to sob, and Tyrion heard her mother saying, “He choked, sweetling. He choked on the pie. It was naught to do with you.” “He did not choke.” Cersei’s voice was sharp as Ser Ilyn’s sword . “My son was poisoned.” She looked to the white knights standing helplessly around her .
Lady Tanda had said to her that the gods are cruel to take him so young and handsome, at his own wedding feast . It was Robb she wept for. Him and Margaery, twice wed and twice widowed . She slid her arm from a sleeve, pushed down the gown, and wriggled out of it .
Ser Dontos had said the hair net was magic, that it would take her home . The silver wire stretched tight across her knuckles . Her thumb rubbed back and forth against the hole where the stone had been .
“You poisoned him. You took a stone from my hair...” “Hush, you’ll be the death of us. I did nothing. Come, we must away, they’ll search for you. Your husband’s been arrested.” “Tyrion?” Sansa pulled away from his touch. “You said I must wear the hair net. The silver net with... what sort of stones are those?” “Black amethysts,” he swore. “There was murder in them!” “
In Old Nan’s stories the grumkins crafted magic things that could make a wish come true . “Tyrion poisoned him?” Her dwarf husband had hated his nephew, she knew. Could he truly have killed him? Did he know about my hair net, about the black amethysts? He brought Joff wine, and they will think I was part of it as well .
Ser Dontos shoved open a heavy door and lit a taper . They were inside a long gallery . The hollow knights are turning into dragons, she thought .
Ser Dontos disappeared. She could hear him huffing and puffing as he began descent . At ten, gingerly, she eased herself over the edge of the cliff, poking with her toes .
Sansa kept her eyes on the face of the cliff, making certain of each step before reaching for the next . When she was halfway down her arms were trembling and she knew that she was going to fall . She stumbled and fell, her heart pounding, and her head swam dizzily .
Sansa saw the ramparts of one of the Imp’s winch towers looming above . They rowed unimpeded past the spot where a thousand men had burned . The shore fell away, the fog grew thicker, the sound of the bells began to fade . Finally even the lights were gone, lost somewhere behind them .
Ser Lothor Brune dipped his torch. Three men stepped to the gunwale, raised crossbows, fired . One bolt took Dontos in the chest as he looked up, punching through the crown on his surcoat . The others ripped into throat and belly .
A bag of dragons buys a man’s silence for a while, but a well-placed quarrel buys it forever . Sansa felt sick. “He said he was my Florian.” The moment came back to her vividly . “Is it all lies, forever and ever, everyone.” He smiled sadly .
There are trees in the godswood instead of walls. Sky above instead of ceiling. Roots and dirt and rock in place of floor. The rats have no place to scurry. Rats need to hide, lest men skewer them with swords.” Lord Petyr took her arm .
a featherbed had been laid upon the narrow sleeping shelf to make it more comfortable . Littlefinger pointed out a cedar chest under the porthole . "I have no motive. I am a thousand leagues away in the Vale."
Jaime The king is dead, they told him, never knowing that Joffrey was his son as well as his sovereign . "The Imp opened his throat with a dagger," a costermonger declared at the roadside inn where they spent the night . The man did not recognize the bearded one-handed knight with the big bat on his shield, no more than any of them .
Jaime Lannister sat silent through it all, letting the words wash over him . He tried to bring the boy’s face to mind, but his features kept turning into Cersei’s . She will be in mourning, her hair in disarray and her mouth trembling as she tries to speak .
Robert Baratheon was rotting in his grave, and Jaime was sick of lies . He pictured Joff lying still and cold with a face black from poison . If the Father Above came down to offer him back his son or his hand, Jaime knew which he would choose .
Gods know why I bother. She is the least companionable creature I’ve ever had the misfortune to meet . The wench rode well behind and a few feet off to the side, as if to proclaim that she was no part of them . She looked more comfortable dressed as a man, but nothing would ever make her look handsome .
Ser Bertram Beesbury rushed to King’s Landing beneath a peace banner of their own . She looked so miserable that Jaime almost found himself wanting to comfort her . The strength is gone from her.
The Gate of the Gods was open when they reached it, but two dozen wayns were lined up along the roadside, loaded with casks of cider, barrels of apples, bales of hay, and some of the biggest pumpkins Jaime had ever seen . At the gate, the gold cloaks were collecting coins from each driver before waving the wagons through . “The Imp is master of coin now,” said the captain of the gate .
Jaime had forgotten how well he liked it . It had been a long time since anyone had leapt to obey him quite so fast .
"Someone has given me two new brothers, I see," Jaime said as he dismounted . "Ser, you’ve been remiss in teaching our new brothers their duties," Meryn Trant said . “I fight with my left now. It makes for more of a contest. I’m the queen with them as well?” Ser Balon answered .
Ser Loras Tyrell slammed his sword back into its sheath . "You have no honor. Draw your sword, woman!" Jaime blocked his path again .
Ser Loras says she charges her with the murder of Lord Renly Baratheon . "I want her arrested," Jaime says. "Her Grace is in mourning. And why would she be wanting to see the likes of you?" "I am the queen’s brother, ser. I’ll have that other hand," he says.
Ser Osmund Kettleblack is the Lord Commander of the Kingsguard . "I want some time alone with my sister. See that no one else enters the sept, ser. If we’re disturbed, I’ll have your bloody head," Cersei said . Joffrey’s bier had been laid out beneath the Stranger, who led the newly dead to the other world .
Joffrey’s bier dressed the dead king in gilded armor, eerily similar to Jaime’s own . The candlelight woke fires in the rubies that decorated the bodice of Cersei’s mourning dress as well . “Why would he kill him for me, won’t you? You’ll avenge our son.” Jaime pulled away. “He is still my brother.” He shoved his stump at her face .
“You shall,” Cersei promised. “There’s to be a trial. When you hear all he did, you’ll want him dead as much as I do.” She kissed him. “I was lost without you, Jaime. I was afraid the Starks would send me your head. I could not have borne that.” He could feel his heart beating in time with his own, and the wetness of blood and seed where they were joined .
"Let me up. If we are discovered like this..." Cersei pulled her gown straight . "With Father in the castle... Jaime, we must be careful." "We’ll have our own wedding feast, and make another son in place of Joffrey." She drew back .
Jaime laced up his breeches and did as she commanded, he couldn't seek a bed . Lord Tywin pushed himself out of his chair, breath hissing between his teeth . "The gods are good, to give you back to us, ser," one said, as he held the door .
Vargo Hoat was half-mad with pain and fever from a wound that festered . He could scarcely wait to tell Brienne, though the wench wouldn’t find it half so funny as he did . Jaime held up the hand in question for his father’s inspection .
Ser Addam’s gold cloaks are searching for the Stark girl . Varys has offered a reward. The king’s justice will be done . “You would execute your own son?” “He stands accused of regicide and kinslaying. If he is innocent, he has nothing to fear .
Lord Tywin rose as well. “I have a duty to House Lannister. You are the heir to Casterly Rock. That is where you should be. Tommen should accompany you, as your ward and squire. The Tyrells are now insisting that Margaery be wed to Tommen, but if I were to offer you instead—” “NO!” Jaime had heard all that he could stand .
The nightfire burned against the gathering dark, a great bright beast whose shifting orange light threw shadows twenty feet tall across the yard . The army of gargoyles and grotesques seemed to stir and shift . “Lord of Light, defend us. The night is dark and full of terrors,” the queen sang .
Ser Axell Florent stood barrelchested and bandy-legged, the firelight washing his face like a monstrous orange tongue . "Grant him courage. Grant him wisdom," said Queen Selyse . Ser Andrew touched his elbow gently .
A smuggler must know the tides and when to seize them . The Bastard of Nightsong had a pox-ravaged face and an air of chivalry . Ser Gerald Gower stood a head taller with a spade-shaped beard and shaggy eyebrows .
Ser Triston of Tally Hill had been a Sunglass man before Lord Guncer went to Melisandre’s fires . “I don’t need men of honor now. I need smugglers. Are you with me, or no?” Davos asked . "I hated sums when I was your age, coz. I like history best, though."
“Come, lad, we must not dawdle.” Edric donned a thick hooded cloak of undyed wool . Maester Pylos helped him fasten it, and pulled the hood up to shadow his face . “My place is here on Dragonstone. Go with Lord Davos now, and do as he says. He is the King’s Hand, remember.” The young maester smiled. “That’s so. Go now.” He could only admire
Ser Andrew and Ser Gerald exchanged a look. “I want to see my uncle.” Edric insisted, louder . “He does not want you.” He pulled off his glove and showed the boy the four fingers that Stannis had shortened.
"I must leave you now," he said. "You are Robert’s son so I know you will be brave, no matter what happens." "Think of this as an adventure, my lord." The boy went with his cousin Ser Andrew out the postern gate . "May the Father judge you justly, Lord Davos." The Bastard gave a curt nod.
The Mother never made me for tasks like this. He had risen too high and too fast, and up here on the mountain the air was too thin for him to breathe . The Blind Bastard used to tell him that a clever smuggler did not overreach, nor draw too much attention to himself . If he survived this night, he would take Devan and sail home to Cape Wrath .
A half moon was sliding in and out amongst thin high clouds, and Davos could see familiar stars . There was the Galley, sailing west; there was the Crone’s Lantern, four bright stars that enclosed a golden haze . The sky is full of smugglers’ stars, all but the bright blue eye that marked due north .
Joffrey Melisandre choked on a morsel of food at his wedding feast, Davos said . “He is the third,” Melisundre said. “I can count, woman.” “The Lyseni still trade at King’s Landing. Salladhor Saan has no reason to lie to me.” The king ran his fingers across the table .
“Edric Storm is gone.” “Give me this boy,” said Davos . “You swear there is no other way? Swear it on your life, for I promise, you shall die by inches if you lie.” “You are he who must stand against the Other. The one whose coming was prophesied five thousand years ago. The red comet was your herald. You are the prince that was promised.” “He can’t,” said Stannis.
"The boy is out of my reach as well, my lady," said Davos Seaworth . "I should have left you to the dark, ser. Do you know what you have done?" "Some might call it treason." "Four of my sons died for you on the Blackwater. I might have died myself. You have my loyalty, always," he said .
A king’s son, with the power of kingsblood in his veins,” Melisandre’s ruby glowed like a red star at her throat . Edric Storm shall die with the rest, wherever he is hidden . “There’s much I don’t understand,” Davos admits .
He dreamt he was back in Winterfell, limping past the stone kings on their thrones . His grey granite eyes turned to follow him as he passed, and their grey granite fingers tightened on the hilts of the rusted swords upon their laps . There is no place for you here. Go away. He walked deeper into the darkness. “Uncle Benjen? Father? Please, Father, help me.” A chill wind was blowing on his neck .
Jon had to get up and go to the Wall, but it was so hard . The pain in his leg seemed duller, nothing he could not stand. The horn blew again, two long blasts, so he slung Longclaw over one shoulder, found his crutch, and hobbled down the steps .
Jon Snow had been a stablehand in Mole’s Town, one of the few moles who had stayed at Castle Black . The rest had run back to their fields and hovels, or their beds in the underground brothel . Horse wanted to take the black, though, the great buck-toothed fool .
Bundles of quarrels, arrows, spears, and scorpion bolts stood ready on every hand . Bowen Marsh had left Castle Black well supplied in everything save men . The wind was whipping at the black cloaks of the scarecrow sentinels .
The wind fanned the flames to a brisk red fury . The counterweights plunged downward, the throwing arms rose to thud against the padded crossbars . Jon caught a glimpse of mammoths moving ponderously through the half-light .
The wall was too big to be stormed by conventional means; too high for ladders or siege towers, too thick for battering rams . You could climb over, but only if you were strong and fit and sure-handed, and even then you might end up like Jarl, impaled on a tree . But the gate was a crooked tunnel through the ice, so narrow that rangers must lead their garrons through single file .
Donal Noye rounded on him. "Any man here stays his sword, I’ll chuck his puckered arse right off this Wall... starting with you, Septon." "But how can I find a target? It’s black as the inside of a pig’s belly. At least you’ll make them fretful," he pointed north .
Jon Snow sent men to the smaller catapults and filled the air with jagged rocks . The darkness swallowed them as a man might swallow a handful of nuts . They heard a mammoth dying at their feet and saw another lurch burning through the woods .
Donal Noye had taken up a longbow himself, and his fingers felt crabbed and stiff, half-frozen . His fever was back and his leg would tremble uncontrollably, sending a white-hot knife of pain right through him . The world was still dark, but the black had turned to grey and shapes were beginning to emerge half-seen from the gloom .
Jon Snow flexed his sword hand, opening and closing the fingers, though he knew full well that swords would not come into it up here . The battle with the Magnar had been nothing, he realized, and the night fight less than nothing, only a probe, a dagger in the dark to try and catch them unprepared . "Here they come," someone said in a hoarse voice .
Mammoths centered the wildling line, he saw, a hundred or more with giants on their backs clutching mauls and huge stone axes . More giants loped beside them, pushing along a tree trunk on great wooden wheels, its end sharpened to a point . If the gate still stood below, some kisses from that thing would soon turn it into splinters .
“The Wall defends itself.” He was shouting now, his leg forgotten, and every man was listening . “They’re nothing, they’re less use than our straw brothers here, they can’t reach us,” he laughed, and Pyp and Owen laughed .
The wildlings had not crossed a third of the half mile, yet their battle line was dissolving . The chariots and racing horsemen on the flanks were well ahead of the center now, he saw . "Load the trebuchet with caltrops," Jon said .
Jon lifted his own bow and pulled the arrow to his ear . Satin, Owen the Oaf, Spare Boot, Black Jack Bulwer, Arron and Emrick .
Wildling arrows were striking the Wall now, a hundred feet below them . A second giant spun and staggered . Notch, draw, loose. A mammoth veered into another beside it .
Jon pulled back his bow once more, and launched another arrow at the beast’s shaggy back to urge him on . Grenn thrust his bow aside, wrestled a barrel of oil onto its side, and rolled it to the edge of the Wall, where Pyp set it alight with a torch . A hundred feet below it struck the Wall and burst, filling the air with shattered staves and burning oil .
The mammoths were fleeing, running from the smoke and flames and smashing into those behind them in their terror . The horsemen on the flanks saw themselves being abandoned and decided to fall back as well, not one so much as blooded . When they break, they break hard, Jon Snow thought as he watched them reel away .
Jon had to check the tunnel and find what had become of Donal Noye . After the battle with the Thenns it took them almost a day to clear the ice and broken beams away from the inner gate . With men in the murder holes and archers and spears behind each inner grate, a few determined brothers could hold off a hundred times as many wildlings .
Pyp led them in, followed by Clydas and the lantern . It felt like walking down the gullet of an ice dragon . They walked farther, turned again, and saw light ahead, faint and pale through the ice . The last twenty feet of the tunnel was where they’d fought and died .
Jon gave the lantern back to Clydas, squeezed around the bodies and through the twisted bars . The carcass of a dead mammoth partially blocked the way . Three more giants lay outside, half buried beneath stone and slush and hardened pitch .
Arya She could feel the hole inside her every morning when she woke . It was a hollow place, an emptiness where her heart had been, her brothers had lived, and her parents . She would huddle beneath her cloak with her eyes squeezed shut and try to will herself back to sleep . If the Hound had left her alone, she would have slept all day and all night.
Sandor Clegane made her get up every morning, whether she wanted to or not . He would curse at her in his raspy voice, or yank her to her feet and shake her . They had two now, Stranger and a sorrel palfrey mare Arya named Craven .
Winterfell was gone. Her grandfather’s brother was at Riverrun, but he didn’t know her . Maybe Lady Smallwood would take her in at Acorn Hall, but maybe she wouldn’t . But that was just stupid, like something Sansa might dream . They were never my pack, not even Hot Pie and Gendry .
Arya was too empty to talk, and the Hound was too angry . She could feel the fury in him, the way his mouth would tighten and twist, the looks he gave her . Sometimes he would be so sore and tired afterward that he wouldn’t sleep without even lighting a fire .
Ser Marq Piper's badge showed a pink maiden dancing in a swirl of silk . His left shoulder was all twisted and swollen where it met his arm . He saw mine and made a jape, red man, maybe they should get together . Arya could tell that it was true .
Sandor gave Arya his helm and told her to fill it, so she trudged back to the water’s edge . When she came back, the archer turned his face up and she poured the water into his mouth . He gulped it down as fast as she could pour, and what he couldn’t gulp ran down his cheeks into the brown blood that crusted his whiskers .
The Hound hefted the knife in his hand, then flipped it toward Arya . She caught it by the hilt, slid it through her belt, and felt a little better . The dead man had a quiver of arrows too, so those they left .
Arya didn’t know her mother’s sister any more than she knew her great uncle Blackfish . It wasn’t like they’d seen them die or anything . Maybe they were taking them to King’s Landing so Joffrey could chop their heads off . "We should go back to the Twins and get my mother. She can’t be dead. We have to help her," the Hound growled .
The scent was faint beneath the other smells, beneath moss and mud and water, and the stench of rotting men . She padded slowly through the soft ground to the river’s edge, lapped up a drink, the lifted her head to sniff . Her brothers and sisters swarmed around them, tearing at the rich ripe flesh . The crows were screaming at the wolves and filling the air with feathers .
She paddled after the sharp red whisper of cold blood, the sweet stench of death . She chased them as she had often chased a red deer through the trees . In the end she ran them down, and her jaw closed around a pale white arm . By now she was tiring, and it was all she could do to pull the body back to shore .
"I know she’s dead. I saw her in a dream," Arya said . The Hound was building a wooden palisade around their homes . "If there’s wine as well, I’ll do it," he growled at them . He settled for ale, and drank himself to sleep each night .
Arya, not Weasel, not Nan nor Arry nor Squab, not even Lumpyhead . Some of the women tried to put her in a dress and make her do needlework . She cried if she skinned a knee, and carried a stupid cloth doll everywhere she went .
"Might be we should stay here awhile," the Hound told her after a fortnight . He was drunk on ale, but more brooding than sleepy . Sounds like they need swords here, with these clansmen raiding .
Arya was tired of making for Riverrun for years, it seemed, without ever getting there . The Hound had a pouch full of coppers, a skin of sour ale, and a new sword . It was a very old sword, if truth be told, though new to him . He swapped its owner the longaxe he’d taken at the Twins .
Tyrion “Tyrion,” Ser Kevan Lannister said wearily . “Justice belongs to the throne. The king is dead, but your father remains Hand.” Tyrion asked Lord Tyrell and Prince Oberyn to sit in judgment with him .
Ser Addam will send the Watch to bring them to trial . “I would sooner find them myself.” “You stand accused of regicide and kinslaying. Do you truly imagine you will be allowed to come and go as you please?” Ser Kevan waved at the table .
Tyrion Lannister sharpened a quill and pulled a blank parchment . The sheet was still maiden when Podrick Payne appeared, sometime later . “Find Bronn and bring him at once. Tell him there’s gold in it, more gold than he’s ever dreamt of, and see that you don’t return without him.” He went .
Ser Addam has men hunting for your wife. Varys has offered a hundred stags for word of her whereabouts . If the girl can be found she will be found, and I shall bring her to you . The judges mean to begin the trial three days hence .
“I’m to wed Lollys the day after next.” “Lollys.” Perfect, bloody perfect . Lady Tanda’s lackwit daughter gets a knightly husband and a father of sorts for the bastard in her belly . “If I wanted wits, I’d marry you.” “She’s not even heir to Stokeworth,” Tyrion pointed out .
Lady Tanda had been desperate to find a husband for Lollys . She had even pursued Tyrion for a time, and that had been before half of King’s Landing enjoyed her . Bronn was a knight now, which made him a suitable match . "My lady wife is heir to Winterfell. I could be poking her two nights hence."
“Does he frighten you so much?” asked Tyrion, hoping to provoke him . “Might be I could take him. Dance around him until he was so tired of hacking at me that he couldn’t lift his sword. Get him off his feet somehow. Either the Mountain spills my guts, or I kill him and lose Stokeworth. I sell my sword, I don’t give it away. May you find more joy in your marriage bed than I ever found in mine.” Bro
Tyrion poured himself a cup of wine and took it to the window seat . Outside the day was grey and rainy, but the prospect was still more cheerful than his . He could send Podrick Payne questing after Shagga, he supposed, but there were so many hiding places in the deep of the kingswood that outlaws often evaded capture for decades .
Ser Addam Marbrand was to be tried in the throne room, where Joffrey had died . He spied Queen Margaery up in the gallery, pale and beautiful in her mourning . The dais still stood beneath the empty Iron Throne, though all but one table had been removed .
Lord Tyrell reddened. “You would blame the bakers?” “Them, or the pigeons. Just leave me out of it.” There was naught that Tyrion could do but nod . Ser Addam had told it true; the first man ushered in was Ser Balon Swann of the Kingsguard .
Ser Meryn Trant was pleased to expand on Ser Balon’s account . He knocked the king to the ground and began kicking him . Tyrion began to grasp his sister’s plan, and milked him for all he would give .
Ser Osmund Kettleblack, a vision of chivalry in immaculate scale armor and white wool cloak, swore that King Joffrey had long known that his uncle Tyrion meant to murder him . “It was the day they gave me the white cloaak, my lords,” he told the judges . Lord Tywin gnashed his teeth, and he took two steps forward .
Maesters Ballabar and Frenken opened the second day of trial . They found no morsel of pigeon pie nor any other food lodged in royal throat . Grand Maester Pycelle had grown too frail to stand, so judges allowed a chair to be brought in for him .
Tyrion Lannister stole poisons from his chambers, when he had him falsely imprisoned . “You used it all to kill the noblest child the gods ever put on this good earth.” Lord Tywin said .
Lords and ladies and noble knights had all been present at the wedding feast . Lady Merryweather swore that she had seen the dwarf drop something into the king’s wine while Joff and Margaery were cutting the pie . At least Galyeon of Cuy had not set his account to music .
“Perhaps the time has come for you to confess,” Tyrion laughed in his face . “Your father had no part in that.” “I don’t recall meeting many regicides while I was there. You expect me to believe that if I admit to being a kinslayer and kingslayer, my father will simply nod, forgive me, and pack me off to the Wall with some warm woolen smallclothes.” He hooted rudely .
Tywin seems a hard man to you, I know, but he is no harder than he’s had to be . It fell to Tywin to restore House Lannister to its proper place . He bore that burden for twenty years, and all it earned him was a mad king’s envy .
Ser Addam Marbrand looked at it curiously when he came to escort Tyrion to trial . The Spider rubbed his hands one over the other all the time he spoke . Half-truths are worth more than outright lies, and unlike the others, Varys had documents .
Lord Tywin asked his daughter as Varys left the hall . "As you wish," said Cersei. "I beg your leave to bring one final witness before you, on the morrow." "Are judges permitted to visit the accused?"
“I have turned up that golden-haired whore I was hoping for” Tyrion asked, unsurprised. Oberyn laughed aloud. “No, but she will if I meet her price.” “Her Grace needs another husband, and who better than a prince of Dorne?
Prince Oberyn left the Lord of Highgarden to rule us after the Submission of Sunspear . He would arrive in force, take a castle for his own, stay a moon’s turn, and ride on to the next castle . It was his custom to turn the lords out of their own chambers and take their beds for himself .
"My father will crown Tommen, count on that," Tyrion said . "Perhaps I should marry Queen Cersei after all, on the condition that she support her daughter over her son?" "I do not know how my sister would choose, between Tommen and Myrcella," he admitted .
“You look so very guilty that I am convinced of your innocence. Still, you will likely be condemned. Justice is in short supply this side of the mountains. There has been none for Elia, Aegon, or Rhaenys.
Lord Tywin presented my sister’s children to King Robert all wrapped up in crimson Lannister cloaks . “Perhaps you ought to have this discussion with my father. He was there. I was at the Rock, and still so young that I thought the thing between my legs was only good for pissing.” “You?” Tyrion studied him. “You are one judge in three. How could you save me?” Jaime A white book sat on a white table .
A longsword hung from his hip, and drawn it across his body when he unsheathed . He had shifted it to his right hip this morning, so as to be able to draw it with his left hand in the same manner . His clothing fit badly as well. Half the court no longer seemed to know him .
The Book of the Brothers was its formal name, but more often it was simply called the White Book . Every knight who’d ever served had a page, to record his name and deeds for all time . On the top left-hand corner of each page was drawn the shield the man had carried at the time he was chosen .
Ser Lyonel Selmy of Harvest Hall Served as squire to Ser Manfred Swann . Named “the Bold” in his 10th year, when he donned borrowed armor . Knighted in his 16th year by King Aegon V Targaryen .
Victor in the mêlée at Maidenpool . Brought King Aerys II to safety during the Defiance of Duskendale . Avenged the murder of his Sworn Brother, Ser Gwayne Gaunt .
Lord Commander of Kingsguard by King Robert I Baratheon . Led attack on Old Wyk during Balon Greyjoy’s Rebellion . Champion of the tourney at King’s Landing, in his 57th year .
Ser Gerold Hightower's own page was scant by comparison . Ser Jaime of House Lannister. Firstborn son of Lord Tywin and Lady Joanna of Casterly Rock . Knighted in his 15th year by Ser Arthur Dayne of the Kingsguard .
Ser Arthur Dayne had saved Lord Sumner’s life as Big Belly Ben was about to smash his head in . And he’d held his own against the Smiling Knight, though it was Ser Arthur who slew him . The Sword of the Morning replied, and made an end of it .
Ser Osmund Kettleblack was the first to arrive . He gave Jaime a grin, as if they were old brothers-in-arms . "Would you indeed?" Jaime doubted that .
Ser Balon Swann was better suited to his cloak, and of course the Knight of Flowers was supposedly all a knight should be . The fifth man was a stranger to him, this Osmund Kettleblack . He wondered what Ser Arthur Dayne would have to say of this lot .
Sansa Stark was the only person in the hall who had reason to want Margaery dead, as well as the king . By poisoning the wedding cup, she could hope to kill both of them, and why did she run afterward, unless she was guilty? Tyrion might yet be innocent . No one knew the Red Keep better than the eunuch .
Ser Boros Blount had grown stout in recent years, though he was big-boned enough to carry it . "You look like a man who enjoys his food. Henceforth you’ll taste everything Tommen eats or drinks," Ser Osmund Kettleblack laughed aloud . Cersei should never have stripped the man of his white cloak .
Ser Boros hawked up a glob of green phlegm, spat it at Jaime’s feet, and walked out, his sword still in its sheath . Boros does not know that, and neither must the rest . They feared the man I was; the man they’d pity .
Ser Robert Stone is dead now, my lord. Use that ugly thing you keep inside your helm . If Tommen wants you to saddle his horse, come to me.
Ser Balon Swann sounded wary as he left . “I... my lord, that will never happen.” “It happened to me,” Jaime said .
Ser Loras Tyrell wore a snowy linen tunic and white wool breeches . His hair was a soft brown tumble, and his eyes were brown as well, my lord . Jaime hated that smile. “I was better than you. I was bigger, I was stronger, and I was quicker.” He had to laugh. This is too absurd. Tyrion would mock me unmercifully if he could hear me now.
A Sworn Brother has no secrets from his Lord Commander. Tell me, ser. Who was wearing Renly’s armor? Loras Tyrell looked as though he might refuse, but in the end he remembered his vows . “I learned from the White Bull and Barristan the Bold,” Jaime snapped .
"I will defend King Tommen with all my strength, I swear it. I will give my life for his if need be. But I will never betray Renly, by word or deed." "I still have Brienne of Tarth in a tower cell," the boy’s mouth hardened .
Ser Loras swore an oath to bring me to King’s Landing, and here I sit . She grieves for Renly as you do. She lacks the wits to be a liar .
Ser Loras stood. “I shall. On my honor as a knight.” He turned back. “Renly thought she was absurd.” “I asked him why he kept her close, if he thought her so grotesque.” “If he’d ever seen her in pink satin and Myrish lace, he would not have complained.” “We are done, then.” Jaime came to a decision .
The Knight of Flowers had been so mad with grief for Renly that he had cut down two of his own Sworn Brothers . It had never occurred to Jaime to do the same with the five who had failed Joffrey . He ought to kill Ser Boros at least, just to be rid of him . Ser Jacelyn Bywater could wear an iron hand, but Cersei might like that .
Sansa had been sick for most of the voyage... sick with terror, sick with fever, or seasick... she could keep nothing down, and even sleep came hard . When she closed her eyes she saw Joffrey tearing at his collar, clawing at the soft skin of his throat, dying with flakes of pie crust on his lips and wine stains on his doublet .
Lord Petyr pointed to where an old flint tower stood outlined against a bleak grey sky, the breakers crashing on the rocks beneath it . She did not want to go ashore here . The Fingers were a dismal place, she’d heard, and there was something forlorn and desolate .
Winterfell was the home of your childhood, Sansa, but you are no longer a child. You’re a woman grown, and you need to make your own home . The Fingers are a lovely place, if you happen to be a stone. But have no fear, we shan’t stay more than a fortnight .
It had been years since Sansa last saw her mother's sister . She will be kind to me for my mother’s sake, surely. She’s my own blood. And the Vale of Arryn was beautiful, all the songs said so .
Lord Petyr led them up the strand over rocks slick with rotting seaweed . A handful of sheep were wandering about the base of the flint tower . Sansa had to step carefully; there were pellets everywhere .
An open stone stair wound round the inside wall, from undercroft to roof . The servants lived and slept in the kitchen at ground level, sharing the space with a huge brindled mastiff and a half-dozen sheepdogs . There were no windows, but arrowslits were embedded in the outer wall at intervals along the curve of the stair .
Sansa Stark was studying her over his own goblet . He called to the old woman, "bring some food up. Nothing too heavy, my lady has a tender tummy. Some fruit might serve, perhaps. Oswell’s brought some oranges and pomegranates from the King." Lord Petyr saved her the effort .
“I have no gallant knights in my service, Alayne.” He cocked his head . “So, who are you?” “Alayne... Stone, would it be?” “Kella?” “Please no,” she mortified. “I was teasing. Your mother was a gentlewoman of Braavos, daughter of a merchant prince. She died giving you birth, and entrusted you to the Faith. I have some devotional books you can look over. Learn to quote from them
Lord Petyr loosened a seed with the point of his dagger . “You must miss your father terribly, I know. You’re still half a child. Every man’s a piece to start with, and every maid as well. Even some who think they are players.” He ate another seed . She thinks herself sly, but in truth she is utterly predictable .
Lord Petyr dismissed him with a wave, and returned to the pomegranate again . Ser Lancel found her the Kettleblacks, which delighted your little lord husband, since the lads were in his pay through his man Bronn .
Lord Petyr cut the blood orange in two with his dagger and offered half to Sansa . "I love the juice but I loathe the sticky fingers," he complained, wiping his hands . “You cannot mean... she wanted to take me to Highgarden, to marry me to her grandson...” She shook her head.
Ser Preston Greenfield raped the Lady Lollys and slipped silvers to Lord Tyrell's army of singers to sing of Ryam Redwyne, Serwyn of the Mirror Shield, and Prince Aemon the Dragonknight . A harp can be as dangerous as a sword, in the right hands, and relieves him of the difficult task of trying to find lands and a bride for a third son .
It was eight long days until Lysa Arryn arrived, while Sansa sat bored and restless by the fire, beside the old blind dog . When the rains let up, Petyr walked with her around his holdings, which took less than half a day . There was one place where the tide came jetting up from a blowhole to shoot thirty feet into the air, and another where someone had chiseled the star of the new gods upon a boulder .
Farther inland a dozen families lived in huts of piled stone beside a peat bog . There was a hermit’s cave on his land as well, but no hermit . The man had not washed in forty years, so you can imagine how he smelled .
Lady Lysa Arryn pooched her lips and pulled him up to plant a kiss upon his cheek . He slid an arm around behind her and kissed her on the neck . “I’ve brought my own septon, and a singer, and mead for the wedding feast.”
“I want you now, this very night. And I must warn you, after all these years of silence and whisperings, I mean to scream when you love me!” The Lady Lysa giggled like a girl . Petyr Baelish, you are so wicked. No, I say no, I am the Lady of the Eyrie .
Lysa’s singer played “The Vow Unspoken” and “Seasons of My Love” . Her aunt danced as well, her skirts whirling when Petyr spun her in his arms . She laughed at everything so long as she held her husband’s hand .
Lady Lysa and Lord Petyr had the third-story bedchamber to themselves . It had begun to rain outside, driving the feasters into the hall one floor below . She screamed, “make me another sweet little baby,” but even his singing and playing could not drown out . The memory of her own wedding night with Tyrion was much with her .
Sansa found Bryen’s old blind dog in her little alcove beneath the steps . He woke and licked her face, ruffling his fur . "You are... kind to think of me, but... pray forgive me. I am very tired," she said .
Sansa jerked away from him, frightened . “If you don’t leave me, my au—my father will hang you. Lord Petyr.” “Littlefinger?” He chuckled .
Sansa dreamed of Joffrey dying, but as he clawed at his throat and the blood ran down across his fingers she saw with horror that it was her brother Robb . When he climbed into the bed his face was scarred only on one side . It took her a moment to remember that she was Alayne . Lord Petyr was up and dressed .
Lysa set the comb down and licked honey from her fingers . "You were wed to Tyrion Lannister, Petyr says . They made me marry him. I never wanted it. I have kept the Vale out of this war. Our harvest has been plentiful, the mountains protect us, and the Eyrie is impregnable. Even so, it would not do to draw Lord Tywin’s wroth down upon us.
Petyr’s breath is always fresh... he was the first man I ever kissed, you know . All my babies died but Robert, three girls and two boys . "You may come kiss my cheek, Alayne." Lady Lysa sniffed .
Lady Lysa caught her wrist as she stepped back . “You are a woman flowered, are you not?” she said . "I shall, Aunt... my lady. I shall make him Lord Protector of the Vale."
Lady Lysa knew that boy Joffrey. He used to call my Robert cruel names, and once he slapped him with a wooden sword . The Mother shaped us to protect our children, and our only dishonor is in failure. You are too young to be a mother. One day you shall want children, though. Just as you will want to marry,” said Sansa .
The Lord of the Eyrie could scarcely be thought to have married a bastard . The ravens should bring us the word from King’s Landing once the Imp’s head rolls . It will be good for him to have a little companion .
Jon was awake when Owen came to him, lying restless under a pile of furs . He gave Jon a hand to help pull him back onto his feet . It took too long to ride up and down in the cage . Castle Black had been abandoned to Maester Aemon, Ser Wynton Stout .
A gust of wind sent icy tendrils wending through his long brown hair . Along the edge of the forest they had raised their tents of hide and fur . There were horselines to the east, mammoths to the west, and men everywhere, sharpening their swords .
Jon had called for fire arrows and set a half-dozen ablaze . After that, Mance started covering them with raw hides . It was Pyp who’d started naming the scarecrows after their missing brothers .
The Myrish lenses brought the wildlings close enough for him to make out faces . Of Mance Rayder himself he saw no sign this morning, but his woman Dalla looked so big it was a wonder she could move . The child must be coming very soon, Jon thought .
Grenn had grown half a foot, his chest and shoulders had thickened . He had not cut his hair or trimmed his beard since the Fist of the First Men . It made him look as huge and shaggy as an aurochs .
The sight of Mance’s turtle had robbed Jon of his appetite . Their oil was all but gone, and the last barrel of pitch had been rolled off the Wall two nights ago . Bowen Marsh had chased the wildlings all the way to the Shadow Tower . More than a hundred brothers slain, among them Ser Endrew Tarth and Ser Aladale Wynch .
Jon looked at Pyp and Kegs and Satin, Horse and Owen the Oaf, Tim Tangletongue, Mully, Spare Boot, and the rest, and tried to imagine them going belly to belly and blade to blade against a hundred screaming wildlings . “It’s big,” Horse said. Pyp smacked his lips, but so do we all. The King-beyond-the-Wall had so many men that he could throw fresh attackers at them every time
The scorpions bolts punched deep into the pelts, but did no more damage than the fire arrows . A stone from one of the trebuchets might have crushed it, but the one machine was still broken, and the wildlings had gone wide around the area where the other dropped its loads .
Inch by inch, yard by yard, the turtle crept closer, rolling, rumbling and rocking as it crossed the killing ground . Once the wildlings got it flush against the Wall, it would give them all the shelter they needed . Inside, under the ice, they would clear the loose rubble from the tunnel in a matter of hours .
Jon told Grenn to pour water into the barrels, as much as they would take . The water would seep down through the crushed stone, and overnight the whole thing would freeze solid . It was the nearest thing to a boulder they were going to get .
Pyp shouted, “There’s a turtle at our door!” Jon braced his injured leg and leaned out for a look . The wildlings were dragging the dead giants away from the gate . He thought he saw one man go down, but the stones were too small to have any effect on the turtle itself .
Satin scooped up his crossbow and sent a few quarrels after them as they ran . He realized how tired he was then, and how much his wound was hurting . A cup of dreamwine did help, as it happened . No sooner had he stretched out on the narrow bed in his cell than sleep took him .
Ser Alliser Thorne turned to say, “Here’s the turncloak now, my lord. Ned Stark’s bastard.” “Lord Snow, he likes to call himself.” “You’re the one who named me Lord Snow,” said Jon . The Old Bear had sent him to Eastwatch-by-the-Sea .
“I will hear these explanations for myself. Yes I will!” Jon swallowed his anger . “You will address Ser Alliser as ser, and myself as m’lord,” he snapped .
Ser Alliser asked with a smirk: “Ser. She was no whore, ser. The Halfhand told me not to balk, whatever the wildlings asked of me, but... I will not deny that I went beyond what I had to do, that I... cared for her.” “You admit to being an oathbreaker, then,” said Janos Slynt . Half the men at Castle Black visited Mole’s Town from time to time .
Ser Glendon was the tall man who had dragged Jon from his bed . He had a single eyebrow, a widow’s peak, and a mustache that looked like a smear of dirt on his upper lip . The Eastwatch men threw the captive roughly to the floor .
Ser Glendon kicked him, and he lapsed back into silence . “All men fear the Lord o’ Bones,” the wildling grumbled. “I never said that,” Slynt insisted .
Jon Snow was Lord Mormont’s own steward and squire . He was chosen for that duty because the Lord Commander saw much promise in him . “Well, promise may turn false. You are doing him a great wrong,” said Slynt .
Tyrion yanked away and grabbed the knight by the throat with such ferocity . Thorne staggered back, rubbing the marks Jon’s fingers had left on his neck . By evenfall I may stand condemned. His belly was acid with bile . Tyrion scratched at it with the point of his knife .
Ser Addam Marbrand waited at the door with six gold cloaks . Tyrion summoned all the dignity he could find and waddled down the steps . The guards on the walls, the grooms by the stables, the scullions and washerwomen .
The Imp and Lady Sansa plotted it after the Young Wolf died . He wanted revenge for her brother and Tyrion meant to have the throne . But after a year or so, before Tommen got too old, he would have killed him too .
The sudden gale of mirth made the rafters ring and shook the Iron Throne . The laughter swelled twice as loud. Their mouths were twisted in merriment . Some laughed so hard that snot flew from their nostrils .
Lord Tywin stared up at his father’s hard green eyes with their flecks of cold bright gold . Mace Tyrell looked mildly disappointed . “Of Joffrey’s death I am innocent. I am guilty of a more monstrous crime.” He took a step toward his father .
Lord Tywin Lannister's face was so dark that for half a heartbeat Tyrion wondered if he’d drunk some poisoned wine as well . It was Mace Tyrell who turned to Tyrion and asked the question . The uproar was deafening .
Tyrion poured himself a cup of wine and sent Podrick Payne off for cheese, bread, and olives . He felt strangely at peace, now that he’d snatched the power of life and death from his father’s hands . If Prince Oberyn won, it would further inflame Highgarden .
Tyrion Lannister slept long and deep and broke his fast on fried bread, blood sausage, applecakes, and a double helping of eggs cooked with fiery Dornish peppers . Tyrion found Prince Oberyn drinking a cup of red wine as he donned his armor . He has been known to cut men in half with a single blow .
Prince Oberyn sounded so blithely confident that Tyrion felt almost reassured, until he turned and said, “Daemon, my spear!” Ser Daemon tossed it to him, and the Red Viper snatched it from the air . The spear was turned eight feet long, the shaft smooth, thick, and heavy .
Doran was betrothed to Lady Mellario of Norvos, so he had been left behind as castellan of Sunspear . If Varys had his little birds listening, Oberyn was giving them a ripe earful .
A pretty lad, and my sister was half in love with him until he had the misfortune to fart once in our presence . I promptly named him Baelor Breakwind, and after that Elia couldn’t look at him without laughing . He remained Lord Leyton’s heir; wealthy, handsome, and a knight of splendid repute .
Tyrion ruled the Seven Kingdoms, but was ruled at home by his lady wife . It all goes back and back, Tyrion thought, to our mothers and fathers and theirs before them . We are puppets dancing on the strings of those who came before us .
Prince Oberyn had to skip and run to keep up with his long strides . It looked like a thousand people had come to see if he would live or die . We could have charged a penny a head and paid for Joffrey’s wedding and funeral both .
Ser Gregor wore a long yellow surcoat bearing the three black dogs of Clegane . He wore heavy plate over chainmail, dull grey steel dinted and scarred in battle . A flat-topped greathelm bolted to his gorget, with breaths around the mouth and nose and a narrow slit for vision .
Lord Tywin glanced briefly at his dwarf son, then lifted his hand . King Tommen was not in evidence; for that, at least, Tyrion was grateful . The High Septon shuffled forward in his tall crystal crown .
The Dornishman slid sideways as the Mountain turned to keep him in sight . Oberyn’s long spear jabbed, but Ser Gregor took the point on his shield, shoved it aside, and bulled back at the prince . Clegane slashed at it, Martell snapped it back, then thrust again .
Ser Gregor slashed at the air while Oberyn’s spear struck at arm, and leg, twice at his temple . Gregor’s big wooden shield took its share of hits as well, until a dog’s head peeped out from under the star . “You murdered her children,” he shouted, slamming the spearpoint into the giant’s throat .
Prince Oberyn parried a savage cut with his spearhead . “You murdered her.” He sent the spearpoint at Clegane’s eyes . The spear flickered sideways and down, scraping against the Mountain’s breastplate .
Oberyn slipped the first blow and let go of the spear, useless now that Ser Gregor was inside it . The second cut the Dornishman caught on his shield . Metal met metal with an ear-splitting clang sending the Red Viper reeling .
The Mountain snorted contemptuously and came on... and in that moment, the sun broke through the low clouds that had hidden the sky since dawn . The sun of Dorne, Tyrion told himself, but it was Gregor Clegane who moved first to put the sun at his back . Ser Gregor hacked at it, but the thrust had only been a feint .
Prince Oberyn hurled cat-quick, and ran at his fallen foe . Four feet of broken spear jutted from Clegane’s belly . He tossed aside the splintered spear and claimed his foe's greatsword .
The Red Viper brought down the greatsword in a wild slash, but he was off-balance . The sword was forgotten as Gregor’s hand tightened and twisted, yanking the Dornishman down on top of him . Tyrion saw with horror that the Mountain had wrapped one huge arm around the prince, drawing him tight against his chest .
Meereen had a score of lesser pyramids, but none stood even half as tall . From here she could see the whole city: the narrow twisty alleys and wide brick streets . And beyond the walls was the pewter sea, the winding Skahazadhan, the dry brown hills, burnt orchards, and blackened fields .
Missandei served duck eggs and dog sausage, and half a cup of sweetened wine . The butterflies did not kill, not even animals; they ate only fruit and never flesh .
Missandei wore a robe of purple samite and a silver sash . She brought her a polished silver glass so she could see how she looked . No one was calling her Daenerys the Conqueror yet, but perhaps they would .
Dany remained in the rear, sitting atop her silver in a long shirt of mail . She heard the city fall from half a league away when the defenders’ shouts of defiance changed to cries of fear . The slaves are rising, she knew at once. My sewer rats have gnawed off their chains .
Meereen had been rich beyond imagining, even her sellswords seemed sated . Grey Worm wore the plain uniform of the Unsullied, his spiked bronze cap beneath one arm . Brown Ben Plumm as well, solid Ben with grey-white hair and weathered face .
Dany had decreed that murderers were to be hanged, that looters were to lose a hand, and rapists their manhood . Eight killers swung from the walls, and the Unsullied had filled a bushel basket with bloody hands and soft red worms, but Dany was determined that should end now that the city was hers .
"Your Grace," said Missandei, "Ghiscari inter their honored dead in crypts" Dany beckoned to Daario. "Two have presented themselves to bask in your radiance." "They arrived in the night on the Indigo Star, a trading galley out of Qarth." "I will see the envoy first."
Dany felt ill, but she knew she must not let the envoy see it . Great Cleon bids me declare his devotion to the Mother of Dragons . He proposes a pact between Astapor and Meereen, against the Yunkai .
tens of thousands of newly freed Meereenese slaves would doubtless follow her when she went west, for fear of what awaited them if they stayed... yet it might well be that worse would await them on the march . The way before her was fraught with hardship, bloodshed, and danger . "I shall see this trader captain," she announced .
Dany was shocked to find out what had happened to her in Astapor . The slaves from the fighting pits, bred and trained to slaughter, were already proving themselves unruly and quarrelsome . They seemed to think they owned the city now, and every man and woman in it .
Dany shifted uncomfortably on the bench . The thought of seeing Jorah Mormont again made her feel as if she’d swallowed a spoonful of flies . "I must be strong. I must have fire in my eyes when I face them, not tears."
Ser Barristan walked with his head held high, but Ser Jorah stared at the marble floor as he approached . The old man had shaved off his white beard. He looked ten years younger without it . But her balding bear looked older than he had. They halted before the bench .
Dany had sent two hundred men along the river under cover of darkness to fire the hulks in the harbor . As the flaming ships drew the eyes of the defenders on the walls, a few half-mad swimmers found the sewer mouths and pried loose a rusted iron grating . It had been a moon’s turn since the last good rain, and the sewers were only thigh-high .
Ser Barristan saved me from the Titan’s Bastard, and from Drogo’s bloodriders after my sun-and-stars had died . "You protected my father for many years, fought beside my brother on the Trident, but you abandoned Viserys in his exile and bent your knee to the Usurper instead." "Some truths are hard to hear. Robert was a... good knight... chivalrous, brave... he spared my life, and the lives of many
King Jaehaerys once told me that madness and greatness are two sides of the same coin . Every time a new Targaryen is born, he said, the gods toss the coin in the air and the world holds its breath to see how it will land .
Ser Barristan turned to Jorah Mormont. “I have tried to tell you true, half a hundred times. I told you that Xaro and Pyat Pree were not to be trusted. I warned you... and all the time you were the Spider’s creature!” He said it grudgingly. “You spied on me and sold me to my enemies!” “I stopped.” “When? When? When did you stop?” “I made one report from Qarth, but—” “
Ser Jorah's face darkened . “I know a poisoner tried to kill my son, because of you.” “No... no.” He shook his head . He should have begun by begging forgiveness .
The gods do nothing without a purpose, they say. You did not die in battle, so it must be they still have some use for you, but I don’t. You are banished, ser. Go back to your masters in King’s Landing and collect your pardon, if you can. Or to Astapor. No doubt the butcher king needs knights.
Dany pictured Jorah moving amongst old gnarled oaks and tall pines . She saw him entering a hall built of huge logs, where dogs slept by the hearth and the smell of meat and mead hung thick in the smoky air . "You are trembling, Khaleesi," the girl said .
Ser Jorah gave me this book as a bride’s gift, the day I wed Khal Drogo . She found Rhaegal asleep beside the pool, a green and bronze coil basking in the sun . He spread his wings and roared when he spied her .
“Viserys said this talk of madness was a ploy of the Usurper’s...” She blurted out . “Your father always had a little madness in him, I now believe. Yet he was charming and generous as well, so his lapses were forgiven .
Dany took Irri into bed with her, for the first time since the ship . But even as she shuddered in release and wound her fingers through her handmaid’s thick black hair, she pretended it was Drogo holding her... only somehow his face kept turning into Daario’s . After the third time she was too restless to return to sleep .
Meereen leaned against a low brick parapet to look down upon the city . She was looking for a house with a red door, but by night all the doors are black . "No house. It does not matter," Dany took the younger girl by the hand .
Dany cocked her head to hear their song, but it was not long before the sounds of my city drowned them out . “You have brought freedom as well,” said Missandei . "Freedom to starve?" asked Dany sharply .
Jaime The king sat at the head of the table, a stack of cushions under his arse . Tommen signed them one after the other, dipping the quill carefully and writing his name in a broad childish hand .
Ser Addam Marbrand had known him since he was a boy, serving as a page at Casterly Rock . He trusted him as much as he trusted anyone. He had wanted to know if he could fight with his left hand . It seemed so simple, changing hands. It wasn’t. Every instinct he had was wrong . Ser Kevan presented another sheaf of parchments to the king .
Ser Kevan said it was a cruel jape, that... though not so cruel as the gift his father had sent him . "This breach between you—“—is his doing. Nor will he mend it by sending me mocking gifts. Tell him that, if you can pry him away from the Tyrells long enough.” His uncle looked distressed . It would be seven years before Tommen was ruling in his own right .
Ser Meryn Trant inclined his head. “As soon as m’lady is mounted,” said Steelshanks Walton . On her back was mounted a skinny hollow-eyed girl wrapped in a heavy cloak . The clasp that pinned it to her breast was wrought in the shape of a wolf’s head .
The real Arya Stark was buried in some unmarked grave in Flea Bottom in all likelihood . The thin girl on the grey mare looked small and forlorn in their midst . A few of the horses still shied away from the dark splotch on the hard-packed ground .
Grand Maester Pycelle was tending to the man’s wounds, but the howls heard ringing from the maester’s chambers suggested that the healing was not going as well as it might . “The flesh mortifies and the wounds ooze pus,” Pycelles told the council. “Even maggots will not touch such foulness. I have had to gag him to prevent him from biting off his tongue. The veins in his arm are turning black. When I lee
Swirls of tiny emeralds brightened the ends of her sleeves and spiraled down her bodice . The gown was cut low, to bare her shoulders and the tops of her breasts . He wanted nothing more than to take her in his arms .
“Why are you here?” Jaime took off his cloak and hung it from a peg on the wall . “Must you be so stubborn? All he wants...” “...is to force me from the Kingsguard and send me back to Casterly Rock as well. He wants me far away, so he’ll have a free hand with Tommen. The girl is twice his age and twice a widow!” He eased himself into a chair, trying to ignore the ache of bruise
Jaime's death left a bitter taste in Jaime’s mouth . It should have been me who killed him, not Cersei . “I only wished he’d died at my hands.” When I still had two of them .
"You don’t think he said it to Ned Stark, I hope? Of course we were alone. Us and the children" Cersei removed her hairnet and draped it over a bedpost, then shook out her golden curls . "Joffrey had no love for Robb Stark. But the younger boy was nothing to him. He was only a child himself." "Tyrion almost died because of this bloody dagger. If you had seen how Joff died... 
Ser Addam Marbrand drew out his cock and bent her head over it . "You are the only man I want in my bed, ever again," she said . “You are talking madness again. We belong to each other, but it can never be, Jaime."
Cersei gathered herself together, got to her feet, straightened her skirts . She shook her head, her hair tumbled around her bare white shoulders . “You lacked the courage to avenge Joffrey, why would I think that you’d protect Tommen?” She bound up her hair again .
Lord Tywin Lannister never had a son, but I lacked the cock . When she was gone Jaime took her advice, fumbling one-handed at his laces . He felt a bone-deep ache in his phantom fingers, and soon enough I will lose a brother .
“Ser Loras, we will talk more of this later. You may leave me with me.” The wench looked as ugly and awkward as ever, he decided when Tyrell left them . “Blue is a good color on you, my lady,” Jaime observed .
“You gave her to him?” she cried, dismayed . “You swore an oath to Lady Catelyn...” “With a sword at my throat, but never mind. The girl my father sent with Steelshanks was not Arya Stark.” “You heard me. My lord father found some skinny northern girl more or less the same age . He dressed her up in white and grey .
"You do not believe he did it," Brienne looked at him . "I have a gift for you," she reddened . Jaime sighed .
"A sword so fine must bear a name. It would please me if you would call this one Oathkeeper. One more thing. The blade comes with a price." Brienne’s homely face twisted in fury . “If you believe that I would harm my lady’s daughter for a sword, you—” “Just listen,” Brienne snapped .
Sansa Stark is my last chance for honor . Jaime sat alone at the table while the shadows crept across the room . He lit a candle and opened the White Book to his own page .
Jon Snow wrapped gloved hands around the bars and held tight as the wind hammered at the cage once more . When he looked straight down past his feet, the ground was lost in shadow, as if he were being lowered into some bottomless pit .
Bastard children were born from lust and lies, men said . Once Jon had meant to prove them wrong, to show his lord father that he could be as good and true a son as Robb . He was glad that Lord Eddard was not alive to see his shame . I should have stayed in that cave with Ygritte .
“Still,” Slynt said, “I will not have it said that Janos Slyndt hanged a man unjustly. I will not. I have decided to give you one last chance to prove you are as loyal as you claim, Lord Snow. But the man is craven, and will not come to us. No doubt he knows I’d hang him. Hang him by his feet from the top of the Wall, on a rope two hundred feet long!
Jon Snow shivered. He was not fit to kill a kitten, yet here he was. His leg was throbbing, and his head had teeth . His honor means no more than our lives, so long as the realm is safe, Qhorin Halfhand said .
Jon swung down onto the ground and rattled Longclaw’s hilt to loosen the bastard blade in its scabbard . There were other corpses too, strewn amidst broken barrels, hardened pitch, and patches of burnt grass . A raven was pulling out bits of brain from the giant’s skull .
“I see that. Best come along, then. You want to ride?” “I can walk.” “You fought us hard here.” Tormund turned his garron back toward the wildling camp . “Aye? Some great lord was he, this Donal Noye?” He took a waterskin off his saddle and pulled the cork .
“You bloody crows.” Tormund’s tone was gruff, yet strangely gentle . “That Longspear stole me daughter. Munda, me little autumn apple.” Toregg slept through it, the great lout, and Torwynd the Tame .
Jon Snow had been fond of Longspear Ryk . He hoped he found some joy with Tormund’s Munda . "You know nothing, Jon Snow," Ygritte thought .
The King-beyond-the-Wall was waiting outside, his ragged red-and-black cloak blowing in the wind . Harma Dogshead was with him, Jon saw, back from her raids and feints along the Wall, and Varamyr Sixskins as well .
The skinchanger was grey-faced, round-shouldered, and bald, a mouse of a man with a wolfling’s eyes . Orell lives inside me now, whispering how much he hates you . And I can soar above the Wall, and see with eagle eyes.” “So we know,” said Mance .
Jon sucked in his breath. A warhorn, a bloody great warhorn . The Horn of Winter, that Joramun once blew to wake giants from the earth . When he moved closer he realized they were gold .
"No man goes hunting with only one arrow in his quiver," Mance Rayder said . Bowen Marsh swallowed that lure as I knew he would, but your band of cripples and orphans proved to be more stubborn than anticipated . I could continue the attack here and still send ten thousand men to cross the Bay of Seals on rafts and take Eastwatch from the rear .
“I’ve come with my tail between my legs to hide behind your Wall.” He touched the horn . “If I sound the Horn of Winter, the Wall will fall. Or so the songs would have me believe. There are those among my people who want nothing more...” Dalla said, “But once the Wall is fallen,” Mance gave her a fond smile .
“I’ve never had a crown on my head or sat my arse on a bloody throne, if that’s what you’re asking,” Mance Rayder replied . “You don’t become King-beyond-the-Wall because your father was.” “You can kill your enemies,” Jon said bluntly, “but can you rule your friends?” “When we want laws we’ll make our own. You can keep your king’s justice too,
A thousand thoughts flickered through Jon’s head . If I can destroy the horn, smash it here and now... but before he could begin to think that through, he heard the low moan of some other horn made faint by the tent’s hide walls . The warhorn was louder outside. Its call had stirred the wildling camp . Three Hornfoot men jogged past, carrying long spears .
Lord Janos lacked the men to attack the wildling camp . Mance glanced suspiciously at the Wall . Atop the parapets, the straw soldiers stood collecting arrows .
Wildlings swept down on the wildling camp, picking their way through clumps of gorse and stands of trees, over roots and rocks . A shout, a slash, and a fine brave death, Mance warned . He drew Longclaw just as a thin line of rangers emerged from the fringes of the woods .
The King-beyond-the-Wall pointed his sword at Jon . The skinchanger was a head shorter than Jon, slumped and soft, but that shadowcat could disembowel him with one paw . When he slammed his heels into the mare, the men who raced to catch him lost all semblance of formation .
Varamyr fell, writhing, and the 'cat was screaming too... and high, high in the eastern sky, against the wall of cloud, Jon saw the eagle burning . For a heartbeat it flamed brighter than a star, wreathed in red and gold and orange, its wings beating wildly at the air as if it could fly from the pain . The scream brought Val out of the tent, white-faced.
A mammoth was stomping through a flock of sheep that three men were trying to herd off west . The enemy was emerging from the forest, from the east, the northeast, the north . It was too late, too disorganized, too slow .
Jon saw a mammoth pluck a knight from his saddle and fling him forty feet with a flick of its trunk . Wildlings streamed past, women and children running from the battle . A few of them gave Jon dark looks but Longclaw was in his hand . Even Varamyr fled, crawling off on his hands and knees .
Arya Outside the inn on a weathered gibbet, a woman’s bones were twisting and rattling at every gust of wind . Sandor no longer seemed to care who knew him . "They might want to take you captive," Sandor said .
He loosened his longsword in its scabbard, and pushed through the door . Arya would never have a better chance to escape. She could ride off on Craven and take Stranger too . The silence told her that. But that wasn’t the worst thing. She knew them too. Not the skinny innkeep, nor the fieldhands by the hearth.
Polliver shoved the girl off his lap and got to his feet . The man-at-arms was almost as tall as the Hound, though not so heavily muscled . A spade-shaped beard covered his jaws and jowls, thick and black and neatly trimmed .
“If you’re looking for Ser, you come too late,” Polliver said . He wore three blades on his belt, Arya saw; a longsword on his left hip, and a dagger . She could almost see him, with his blond curls and his mean smile and his fat soft lips .
“The sellswords fled as soon as they knew we were coming,” said Polliver . “We kept him to cook for us, a couple wenches to warm our beds, and put all the rest to the sword.” “Well, Ser kept Hoat to pass the time.” Sandor said, “He’s under siege. Old Frey’s going to hang Edmure Tully unless he yields the castle.” “The only real fighting’s around Raventree. Blackwoods and
Randyll Tarly took the castle and locked Mooton in a tower cell . It gave Arya chills to hear him ask a question . “Ser would sooner you return to Harrenhal with us, Sandor. I bet he would. Or King’s Landing...” “Bugger that. Bugger him.” The Tickler reached a hand behind his head to rub the back of his neck.
The Hound’s own cuts were sloppier, his parries rushed, his feet slow and clumsy . He’s drunk, Arya realized with dismay. He drank too much too fast, with no food in his belly . And the Tickler was sliding around the wall to get behind him . She grabbed the second wine cup and flung it at him, but he was quicker than the squire had been .
Arya grabbed the flagon with two hands, but as she lifted it someone grabbed her arm . The flagon slipped from her fingers and crashed to the floor . He had his sword in his right hand and her arm in his left, but her own hands were free .
The Hound ducked under his wild slash and brought his own sword up . Blood spattered on the ceiling and walls . The blade caught in the middle of Polliver’s face, and when the Hound wrenched it loose half his head came with it .
Arya went to Polliver and knelt in his blood long enough to undo his swordbelt . He slipped between his ribs and gave it to him. “Good.” Sandor’s voice was thick with pain . “We’ve killed enough of the bloody buggers for one day,” she asked .
Arya had tied a strip of cloth about his neck and another around his thigh . The cloak was green, with a green arrow on a white bend, but when the Hound wadded it up it soon turned red . They angled south by east through weedy fields, woods, and marshes .
Sandor propped up his helm in the flames, emptied half the wineskin into it, and collapsed back against a jut of moss-covered stone . He made Arya wash out the squire’s cloak and cut it into strips . “If I had more wine, I’d drink till I was dead to the world. Maybe I ought to send you back to that bloody inn for another skin or three.” He wouldn’t, would he?
Sandor coiled his right hand into a fist and beat against the ground . When it came to his neck, Sandor bit the stick so hard it broke . She trickled the wine down over the raw flesh where his ear had been .
The Hound was still weak, every movement slow and clumsy . He slumped in the saddle, and sweated, and his ear began to bleed through the bandage . She doubted if he would even be able to lift a sword .
Sandor Clegane was reeling when he called a halt . When he saw Arya staring at him, he said, “I’d skin you alive for a cup of wine, girl.” She brought him water instead . He drank a little of it, complained that it tasted of mud, and slid into a noisy fevered sleep .
“Don’t lie,” Arya growled. “I hate liars. I hate gutless frauds even worse. Go on, do it.” He made a queer sound, and it took her a moment to realize he was sobbing . A spasm of pain twisted his face. “You don’t deserve the gift of mercy.” The Hound watched her saddle Craven through eyes bright with fever .
The Trident began to widen out and the air smelled more of salt than trees . A small castle dominated the town; no more than a holdfast, really, a single tall square keep with a bailey and a curtain wall . But the port was there, and eastward spread the Bay of Crabs . Two were only river galleys, shallow draft boats made to ply the waters of the Trident .
Arya bit her lip; she was a big, robust woman with a good horsey smell to her . They had found a stag and a dozen coppers on Polliver, eight silvers on the pimply squire she’d killed . But the Hound had told her to pull off his boots and slice open his blood-drenched clothes . She turned up three golden dragons sewn in the lining of his jerkin .
Arya had to bite her lip and let herself be cheated . The purse she got was pitifully flat, and when she asked for more for the saddle and bridle and blanket, the woman just laughed at her . A cask of mead was being rolled up the plank when she arrived .
“I could scrub the decks. I scrubbed a castle steps once. Or I could row...” “No,” Arya said, “you couldn’t.” He gave her back her coins . “This is the galleas Titan’s Daughter, of the Free City of Braavos.” “I have something else.” She had stuffed it down inside her smallclothes to keep it safe, so she had to dig deep to find it .
"He sucks harder than mine," says blonde woman Val, the one the black brothers called the wildling princess . The boy did not have a name yet, no more than Gilly’s did . It is the first time I’ve seen him smile since I got back .
Mance Rayder was taken captive, a thousand of his best slain, including Harma Dogshead . The gods are good, Sam thought . Nothing that his brothers told him prepared him for what he found at Castle Black . There was a king in the King’s Tower for the first time in living memory .
“I don’t know whose sigil that is.” He found out soon enough . “Queen’s men,” Pyp told him, after shouting, “Run and bar the doors, lads, it’s Sam the Slayer come back from the grave,” while Grenn was hugging Sam so hard he thought his ribs might break .
Sam lingered long enough to give Gilly’s hand a squeeze and promise to return again after supper . Sam was glad that his long nightmare was done, glad to be back with his brothers at Castle Black... but some nights, alone in his cell, he thought of how warm Gilly had been when they’d curled up beneath the furs with the babe between them . "Mance is a deserter from the Night’s Watch. The penalty for that is death. If the Watch had
Jon swallowed nervously and said, “Jon, could there be honor in a lie, if it were told for a... a good purpose?” “I wouldn’t advise it. You’re not made to lie, Sam. You blush and squeak and stammer.” “I’m better with a quill in hand. I thought maybe the best thing for Gilly... I thought I might send her to Horn Hill. To my mother and sisters and my... my f-f-
king's men were as earthy and impious as any other soldiers . King Stannis knows as well, I’ll wager. You brought him the Horn of Winter and captured Mance Rayder’s son .
Ser Alliser Thorne has been putting it about that the only time I bared my sword was to defend our foes . With his noble birth, his knighthood, and his long years in the Watch, he might have been a strong challenger for the Lord Commander’s title . Thornen had withdrawn to support Lord Janos Slynt after running a weak sixth .
Jon Snow had no master-at-arms, so Jon had taken it on himself to work with some rawer recruits . It was so mad that there were times Sam Tarly thought he must have dreamt it all, conjured it whole from fever and fear and hunger... but he would have blurted it out anyway, if he hadn't given his word .
Sam, you’re a sweet fool, could hear Jon saying, all the way back to the maester’s keep. Open your eyes. It’s been happening for days. Could he be right? A man needed the votes of two-thirds of the Sworn Brothers to become the Lord Commander of the Night’s Watch .
Ser Denys Mallister had collected two hundred and thirteen tokens . Cotter Pyke one hundred and eighty-seven, Lord Slynt seventy-four, Othell Yarwyck sixty, Bowen Marsh forty-nine, Three-Finger Hobb five, and Dolorous Edd Tollett one .
Sam looked for Jon Snow, but did not see him anywhere in the cavernous stone vault . Pyp was telling Dolorous Edd about the contest they had to see which of the straw soldiers could collect the most wildling arrows . Three-Finger Hobb had promised the brothers roast haunch of mammoth that night .
Maester Aemon asked if any of the brothers wished to speak before they cast their tokens . He was followed by Bowen Marsh, who stood with one hand on Lord Slynt’s shoulder . It is too late, the damage is done, so by tradition the choosing was done by dropping tokens into a potbellied iron kettle .
Sam had one hundred and sixty-nine for Cotter Pyke . One hundred and thirty-seven for Lord Janos Slynt, seventy-two for Othell Yarwyck and two for Dolorous Edd . “Sam’s count is correct,” said Maester Aemon .
“What am I going to do with him, Sam?” sighed Pyp . “Cotter Pyke and Ser Denys don’t like each other much,” Grenn argued stubbornly .
Satin jerked the shield up in time to catch the sword on its rim, and swung his own blade at Jon’s ribs . “That was good. But you need to put your body into it. Get your weight behind the steel and you’ll do more damage than with arm strength alone,” Satin said, in an anxious voice .
Jon Snow was waiting for him at the base of the Wall . She had sent her queen’s men away . He shut the door and pulled the bell cord. The winch began to turn .
Stannis is pure iron, black and hard and strong, but brittle, the way iron gets . He’ll break before he bends, he knelts, wondering why this king had need of him . “I have heard much and more of you, Lord Snow,” the king said .
Stannis Baratheon towered over Jon, but looked so gaunt that he looked ten years older than he was . "Donal Noye held the gate. He died below in the tunnel, fighting the king of the giants." "Your Lord Mormont trusted too easily. Else he would not have died as he did."
“The Lord of Light has fiery talons, Jon Snow.” Jon nodded, and turned back to the king . “You are fond of this Val?” “I scarcely know her.” “They tell me she is comely.” “I think so.” “In the Lord of Bones,” Jon hesitated .
“Your father was a man of honor. He was no friend to me, but I saw his worth,” Stannis said . “I need more than a sword from you,” Jon Snow answered carefully . "You are bold enough to be a Stark. Yes, I should have come sooner. If not for my Hand, I might not have come at all.” “His name may not be spoken,” Melisandre added softly .
“Your brother Robb was King in the North.” “You are not Robb, no more than I am Robert.” The harsh words had blown away whatever sympathy Jon might have had for Stannis . “I am the only true king in Westeros, north or south. And you are Ned Stark’s bastard.” He studied him with those dark blue eyes . The ironmen are fighting amongst themselves since Balon Greyjoy’s death .
Ser Alliser Thorne had named him that, to mock his bastard birth . But suddenly it had a different sound to it in Jon’s ears . “I knelt before a heart tree and swore to hold no lands and father no children.” “Jon.” Melisandre was so close he could feel the warmth of her breath .
King Stannis gazed off north again, his gold cloak streaming from his shoulders . "I am mistaken in you, Jon Snow. You may lack your father’s honor, or your brother’s skill in arms. You are the weapon the Lord has given me," he said .
The one who calls himself the Lord of Bones, some of their clan chiefs, the new Magnar of Thenn . Your brothers will not like it, no more than your father’s lords, but I mean to allow the wildlings through the Wall... those who will swear me their fealty . I will settle them on the Gift once I have wrested it away from your new Lord Commander .
“Whoever?” Stannis asked . “Does this mean you will not wed the girl? I warn you, she is part of the price you must pay . This match is necessary, to help assure the loyalty of our new subjects . It was Winterfell the king was speaking of, and winterfell was not to be lightly refused .
“Bugger you all” was not like to earn him much of a place in the histories . Tyrion wished he’d been able to think of some rousing last words . “I’ll die with the taste of blood in my mouth, that’s something,” Tyrion said .
“You’re to be beheaded on the morrow, out on the old tourney grounds.” Tyrion laughed again . “You won’t need last words. I’m rescuing you.” Jaime’s voice was strangely solemn . He slid the torch back into its sconce, on the wall between the cells .
“You have the wrong man, I’m a different dwarf with a hideous facial scar’” Both Lannisters laughed at the absurdity of it all . Then Jaime went to one knee and kissed him quickly once on each cheek . “It was... a debt I owed you.” Jaime’s voice was strange. “Good. Some doors are best left closed.” “Tyrion...” Jaime is afraid.
“You must believe me,” Tyrion snarled. “Why should I believe you about anything, ever? She was my wife!” Tyrion hit him. It was a slap, backhanded, but he put all his strength into it . The blow sent him tumbling backward to the floor . “Oh, you’ve earned more than that, Jaime. You and my sweet sister and our loving father, yes, I can’t begin to tell you what you've earned. But you
Jaime would have been a worse king than Aerys ever was . He stole his father’s dagger and gave it to a footpad to slit the throat of Brandon Stark . “You have not answered my question.” “You poor stupid blind crippled fool.” He made himself grin .
“I sent for you during my trial.” “I could not come. The queen had me watched, night and day. I dared not help you.” “Your brother can be most persuasive.” “Varys, you are as cold and slimy as a slug, has anyone ever told you? You did your best to kill me. Perhaps I ought to return the favor.” Tyrion sighed .
It was very cold within the stairwell, a damp bone-chilling cold that set him to shivering at once . “What part of the dungeons are these?” Varys replied . The second level has the smaller cells where highborn captives are held .
Varys walked quickly, from time to time whispering, “Careful, there are three steps ahead” or, “The tunnel slopes downward here, my lord.” Tyrion reflected, and I leave like a rat scuttling through the dark, holding hands with a spider . A light appeared ahead of them, too dim to be daylight, and grew as they hurried toward it . Five other doors opened off the room, each barred in iron .
“Your lord father’s bedchamber now.” Tyrion looked up the shaft . “You are too weak for such follies, and there isbesides no time. We must go.” “I have business above. How far?” “Two hundred and thirty rungs, but whatever you intend.” “The tunnel to the left, but hear me—” “How far along to the bedchambe?” Tyrion lifted a foot to the lowest rung of the ladder. “No more than sixty feet. Keep
Tyrion was short enough to walk upright . He walked slowly, counting steps, feeling for gaps in the walls . Soon he began to hear voices, muffled and indistinct at first . Lester figured he’d face the axe brave as a lion .
He fumbled about for a long time before his fingers brushed a small iron hook set between two stones . The fireplace was full of hot ash, and a black log with a hot orange heart burning within . He edged past gingerly, taking quick steps so as not to burn his boots . When he reached the bed Tyrion pulled the draperies aside and there she was . It died when she saw him .
Tyrion slid a hand under his father’s chain, and twisted . The links tightened, digging into her neck . A lion-headed mace, a poleaxe and a crossbow had been hung on the walls . Lum and Lester had lectured him more than once on crossbows .
Lord Tywin Lannister gave his father a mocking half bow . Tyrion slid out, holding the crossbow down against his leg . “I’d love to tell you, but I swore a holy oath,” his father decided .
Lord Tywin Lannister was angry when his bowels loosened in the moment of death . But the stink that filled the privy gave ample evidence that the oft-repeated jape about his father was just another lie . Samwell The king was angry. Sam saw that at once.
King Stannis kept the black brothers on their knees for an extraordinarily long time . The sound of Lord Janos Slynt clearing his throat broke the strained silence . “There comes a man who neer forgets his duty,’ I said to good Ser Alliser .
"I have captives to dispose of, a realm to order," said Janos Slynt . "The choice of a Lord Commander belongs to the Sworn Brothers, and to them alone," said Ser Denys Mallister . The suggestion outraged some of the others .
Lord Slynt’s jowls were quivering, but before he could frame a further protest Maester Aemon said, “Your Grace, by law a man’s past crimes and transgressions are wiped clean when he says his words and becomes a Sworn Brother of the Night’s Watch.” “I am aware of that. It is naught to me which man of you is chosen, so long as you make a choice. We have a war to fight
“I know your history, Ser Denys,” the king said brusquely . “I give you my word, I shall not ask you to lift your swords against any of the rebels and usurpers who plague me.” “We’ll defend the Wall to the last man,” said Dolorous Edd .
“Some of the abandoned castles are scarce more than ruins,” said Othell Yarwyck, the First Builder . “I shall require a list from you, detailing the present state of every castle and what might be required to restore it.” “Nightfires?” Melisandre rose in a swirl of scarlet silk .
King Stannis said, “You call and I came, my lords. Now you must live with me, or die with me. Best get used to that.” Sam thought, stricken, as his brothers were bowing and making their way out . “You are the one that killed the creature in the snow.” Melisandre smiled. “No, my lady. Your Grace. I mean, I am, yes. I’m Samwell Tarly, yes.” “Your father is an able soldier
"You slew this creature with an obsidian dagger, I am told," he said to Sam . "You will show me this gate," the king said. "The Nightfort is the largest and oldest of the castles on the Wall"
“You will,” snapped Stannis. “I shall tell you when.” Maester Aemon smiled . “You want to see Lightbringer? A blind man?” “Sam shall be my eyes.” The king frowned . He took the belt down and drew the longsword out . Steel scraped against wood and leather, and radiance filled the solar .
Maester Aemon asked Sam to set a fire and help him to his chair beside the hearth . “I miss the sun. And books. I miss books most of all.” He recalls . He said, “I’m not a maester,” said Sam .
Sam was braver now. Gilly made me braver, he’d told Jon. It was true. It had to be true. No man would ever call Cotter Pyke handsome, though the body under his studded brigantine and roughspun breeches was lean and hard and wiry strong . His eyes were small and close-set, his nose broken, his widow’s peak as sharply pointed as the head of a spear .
“The maester?” Sam swallowed . “You want me to kneel down and kiss the hem of Mallister’s pretty cloak, is that it? I might have known. You lordlings all flock like sheep. Well, tell Aemon that he’s wasted your breath and my time.” “We choose him, and we’re like to be back here in a year, choosing someone else,” Sam agreed .
Ser Denys was a knight, highborn and well-spoken, and he treated Sam most courteously when he’d found him and Gilly on the road . He had treated Sam very courteously, but he had treated him . "Are you Sam the Slayer or Deaf Dick? No, I won’t support him," Pyke said .
Sable trimmed his collar and accented the sleeves of his black velvet doublet . A silver eagle fastened its claws in the gathered folds of his cloak . The years had dimmed neither his blue-grey eyes nor his courtesy .
"Many of my brothers have proved themselves in battle. It is not enough. Some matters cannot be settled with a battleaxe," he said . "We are the sons of great lords, you and I. He must be able to treat with others... and with kings as well." "We know the importance of birth, blood, and that early training that can ne’er be replaced"
Ser Denys said there could be honor in a lie, if it were told for the right reason . He said as much to Maester Aemon this morning, after all of you had left . But Bowen Marsh is not equal to the task, no more than Othell Yarwyck.
Jon Iron Emmett was a long, lanky young ranger whose endurance, strength, and swordsmanship were the pride of Eastwatch . He would never get any better going up against the likes of Satin and Horse, or even Grenn.
Iron Emmett came in over his shield with a savage forehand slash that caught Jon on the temple . Jon had hardly slept, and had given up even the attempt, dressed, and walked the top of the Wall till the sun came up, wrestling with Stannis Baratheon’s offer . He was hammering him mercilessly across the yard, driving him back on his heels with one long looping cut after another and slamming him with his shield from
Jon could taste blood in his mouth, from the blow he’d taken . Halder and Horse had to pull him away from Iron Emmett, one man on either arm . He sat on the ground dazed, his shield half in splinters, the visor of his helm knocked askew, and his sword six yards away .
Winterfell belongs to the old gods . He left the armory by the back, descending a steep flight of stone steps to the wormways . It was short walk to the bathhouse, where he took a cold plunge to wash the sweat off . Theon left it burned and broken, but I could restore it .
“Maybe if I knew the man better... Lord Stannis didn’t have much good to say of anyone?” Ser Alliser’s flinty voice was unmistakable . “Lord Tywin favors Slynt,” said Bowen Marsh in a fretful, anxious voice .
Othell Yarwyck was not a man of strong convictions, except when it came to wood and stone and mortar . He walked past the shell of the Lord Commander’s Tower, where he’d saved the Old Bear from a dead man .
King Stannis had confined his wildling captives within a ring of ditches, sharpened stakes, and high wooden fences . To his left were three great firepits, where the victors had burned the bodies of all the free folk to die beneath the Wall . The killing ground was still a desolation of scorched weeds and hardened pitch, but Mance’s people had left traces of themselves everywhere .
Jon Snow had never dared dream of, since he decided to live his life on the Wall . He wanted it as much as he had ever wanted anything . I have always wanted it, he thought, guiltily . May the gods forgive me. It was food he needed, prey, a red deer that stank of fear .
Jon was leaner than he had been, but bigger as well, and the only sound he made was the soft crunch of dead leaves beneath his paws . When he reached Jon he leapt, and they wrestled amidst brown grass and long shadows as the stars came out above them . The direwolf had no answer, but licked Jon’s face with a tongue like a wet rasp .
The king’s men were much in evidence in the yards of Castle Black . They stopped as Jon went by, and gaped at him . Ghost was twice as large as the common wolves that prowled their southron greenwoods .
Jon grinned at the sight of Ghost, put two fingers in his mouth, and whistled as only a mummer’s boy could whistle . A hush spread across the cellar, until the only sounds were Jon’s heels clicking on the stone floor, and the soft crackle of the logs in the hearth . Lord Janos was red-faced and quivering. “This... this beastling is not fit to lead us!” Ghost bared his teeth, but Jon put a hand on
Ser Alliser Thorne leapt up on the table, and raised his hands for quiet . The big builder rubbed his long lantern jaw and said, “Well, I’m pulling my name out. If you wanted me, you had ten chances to choose me, and you didn’t.” “He’s never seen Harrenhal,” Cotter Pyke shouted out.
Janos Slynt had turned from red to purple, Jon saw, but Ser Alliser Thorne had gone pale . The kettle was in the corner by the hearth, a big black potbellied thing with two huge handles and a heavy lid . A few of the brothers were queueing up by the token barrels as Clydas took the lid off .
Lord Janos Slynt sat down so heavily he made a thump . The raven cocked its head and looked at Jon . “Ser Piggy thinks we’re all fools, brothers,” he said .
“Lord Snow,” said Cotter Pyke, “if you muck this up, I’m going to rip your liver out and eat it raw with onions.” “It was a hard thing young Samwell asked of me,” the old knight confessed. “No matter, he has been longer on the Wall than you have, your time may yet come.’ But you are half a boy, Lord Snow, and now I must return to the Shadow Tower knowing that my time will never come.”
Jon Snow walked across the castle wondering if he were dreaming . Grenn whispered, “Sam did it!” and Pyp said, “I had nothing to do with the bird,” Sam insisted . “You’re all a bunch of mad fools, do you know that?” said Pyp .
The Eyrie was no home. It was no bigger than Maegor’s Holdfast, and outside its sheer white walls was only the mountain and the treacherous descent past Sky and Snow and Stone to the Gates of the Moon on the valley floor . There was no place to go and little to do . Aside from her aged maid, Sansa’s only companion was the Lord Robert, eight going on three .
Lysa knew Jon Arryn’s bannermen resented her marriage and begrudged Petyr his authority as Lord Protector of the Vale . The senior branch of House Royce was close to open revolt over her aunt’s failure to aid Robb in his war, and the Waynwoods, Redforts, Belmores, and Templetons were giving them every support .
The Eyrie’s towers encircled the garden and protected it from the worst of the mountain winds . She donned silken smallclothes and a linen shift, and over that warm dress of blue lambswool . The snow drifted down and down, all in ghostly silence, and lay thick and unbroken on the ground .
Sansa began to make snowballs, shaping and smoothing them until they were round and white and perfect . Arya and Bran had ambushed her as she emerged from the keep one morning . They’d each had a dozen snow balls to hand, and she’d had none . She had slipped on some ice, but she grabbed her leg and pulled her down and was rubbing snow in her hair .
She pushed two of her snowballs together, added a third, packed more snow in around them, and patted the whole thing into the shape of a cylinder . When it was done, she stood it on end and used the tip of her little finger to poke holes in it for windows . The snow fell and the castle rose. Two walls ankle-high, the inner taller than the outer .
Dawn stole into her garden like a thief . A few servants came out and watched her for a time, but she paid them no mind and they soon went back inside where it was warmer . There was a covered bridge between the armory and the main keep .
Lysa had asked him to shave it off . He stepped over both walls with a single long stride and squatted on his heels . Littlefinger had a crisscrossing latticework of twigs .
Petyr yelped, as the snow slid down under his collar . She wondered where this courage had come from, to speak to him so frankly . Sansa’s stomach was aflutter. “Yes, I played you false in that... and in one other thing as well.” He stepped closer.
“I won’t.” He sounded almost like Marillion, the night he’d gotten so drunk at the wedding . “You shouldn’t kiss me. I might have been your own daughter...” “Might have been,” he admitted, with a rueful smile .
Sansa stood horrified, but Petyr Baelish seized her cousin’s wrists and shouted for the maester . “I ripped his doll in two. I never meant to, but...” She killed him! “I hate her! She’s a bastard and I hate her!”
My lord husband, Sansa thought, as she contemplated the ruins of Winterfell . She smashed the torn doll’s head down on top of it, then pushed it down atop the shattered gatehouse of her snow castle . The servants looked aghast, but when Littlefinger saw what she’d done he laughed .
Lady Lysa had been marshaling her courage all day, but no sooner did Marillion appear at her door than all her doubts returned . He had made himself well hated in the Vale, by everyone but her aunt and little Lord Robert . She had given him her late husband’s favorite falcon .
A song so sweet and sad it will melt even your frozen heart . The High Hall had been closed as long as she’d been at the Eyrie . Lady Lysa sat on the dais in a highbacked chair of weirwood, alone .
Shafts of pale daylight slanted down through narrow arched windows along the eastern wall . Between the windows were torches, mounted in high iron sconces, but none of them was lit . Outside the wind blew cold and lonely . Amidst so much white marble even the sunlight looked chilly .
Sansa took a step backward. “That’s not true.” “Where are you going? Are you afraid? Such wanton behavior must be punished, but I will not be hard on you. We keep a whipping boy for Robert, as is the custom in the Free Cities . “I cannot abide a liar, Alayne.” “I was building a snow castle.” “Have you no honor?” her aunt said sharply. “Or do you take me for a fool?
Lord Bracken's singer played for us, and Catelyn danced six dances with Petyr that night, six . When the lords began to argue my father took them up to his audience chamber, so there was no one to stop us drinking . He looked so wounded I thought my heart would burst, and afterward he drank until he passed out at the table .
Lysa Arryn was frightening her as much as Queen Cersei ever had . “May I have your leave to go?” “You may not.” Her aunt’s breath smelled of wine. “If you were anyone else, I would banish you. Send you down to Lord Nestor at the Gates of the Moon, or back to the Fingers.” Everyone thought it was because of that stupid duel with Brandon Stark, but that wasn’t so .
“You’re hurting me.” Sansa squirmed. “Please, Aunt Lysa, I haven’t done anything. I swear it.” Her aunt ignored her protests. “Marillion!” she shouted. “I need you, Marillion! I need you!” Lady Lyse pulled at Sanse’s arm . “You squeak like a mouse now, but you were bold enough in the snow” .
Lady Lysa seized her by the wrist and put her other hand between her shoulder blades, propelling her forcefully toward the open door . There was nothing in front of her but empty air, and a waycastle six hundred feet below clinging to the side of the mountain . “Do you still want my leave to go? Do you?” she screamed .
Lady Lysa twisted sideways, hysterical with fear, and one foot slipped out over the void . The wind flapped her skirts up and bit at her bare legs with cold teeth . She could feel snowflakes melting on her cheeks .
“I never gave you leave to speak. No one cares about your castle.” “She’s a child, Lysa. Cat’s daughter. What did you think you were doing?” “I was going to marry her to Robert! She has no gratitude. No... no decency. You are not hers to kiss.” “I see.” He stroked his chin. “I think she understands now. I don’t want her here.” “Why did you bring her to the Vale, Petyr
Catelyn kissed you in the godswood, but she never meant it, she never wanted you . “There’s no cause for all these tears.” “Tears, tears, tears,” she sobbed hysterically. “No need for tears... but that’s not what you said in King’s Landing. You told me to put the tears in Jon’s wine, and I did. That was so clever... you were always clever... I said he’ll rise high,
Littlefinger let Lysa sob against his chest for a moment, then put his hands on her arms and kissed her lightly . The guards were shouting outside the door, pounding with the butts of their heavy spears . Lord Petyr pulled Sansa to her feet .
Snow in autumn in the riverlands, it’s unnatural, Merrett thought gloomily . It had not been much of a snow, true; just enough to blanket the ground for a night . Most of it had started melting away as soon as the sun came up .
Merrett hated the woods, if truth be told, and he hated outlaws even more . He was too often in his cups, his father said, often and loudly . "Outlaws stole my life," he thought ruefully .
Petyr Pimple was tempted to trot right back down the hill and find the nearest alehouse . He had a simple ransom. Even he could not muck it up... unless he got a headache . Merrett rubbed two fingers against his temple, not weeping in a huddle at the side of the road .
Merrett had no right to think so ill of Petyr . The poor lad had a wife, to be sure, but she was half the problem . There was always lots of talk around the Twins, and only a little was ever true .
Ser Ryman had been grooming Stevron for sixty years, and had pounded it into his head that blood was blood . He died while campaigning with the Young Wolf in the west, and his sons and grandsons were a different sort of Frey . Lame Lothar once said, "they hate each other even more than they hate us"
Merrett would be forty in less than three years, too old to take up the life of a hedge knight . He owned the clothes on his back but not much else, not even the horse he was riding .
Lord Sumner had ransomed him back from the outlaws, but in the very next fight he’d been felled by a blow from a mace that had broken his helm and left him insensible for a fortnight . Even the lightest blow to his head brought on blinding pain and reduced him to tears.
Merrett's wife found him a great disappointment from the first, and insisted on popping out nothing but girls for years . His eldest daughter turned out to be a slut, his second a glutton . Ser Pate decided he could win renown by defeating Ser Gregor Clegane .
Roose Bolton chose to wed his Walda instead of one of her slimmer, comelier cousins . House Frey and his daughter had helped secure it; he thought that must surely count for something . The old man had soon disabused him. “He picked her because she’s fat,” Lord Walder said .
Merrett paused a moment and closed his eyes . He rubbed his temples with his thumbs, but that did nothing to ease the pressure behind his eyes. Petyr Pimple wasn’t as cold as Edwyn, nor as hot as Black Walder .
Petyr Pimple might be Lord of the Crossing one day, Edwyn has no sons and Black Walder’s only got bastards . He took another swallow, corked the skin up, and led his palfrey through broken stones, gorse, and thin wind-whipped trees, following the sounds to what had been the castle ward .
"Why is it your lord father never has me play at the Twins?" asked a harsher voice, behind him . Merrett’s throat was dry. Bloody outlaws, always hiding in the bushes . There was one woman with them, bundled up in a hooded cloak three times too big for her .
a one-eyed outlaw strode forward before he could finish, reached into the saddlebag bold as you please, and found the sack . Merrett started to grab him, then thought better of it . “That’s the whole ransom. All you asked for.” His palms were sweating. He wiped them on his breeches .
“We don’t drink with your sort,” yellow cloak said curtly . “It’s this way. Follow me.” Leaves crunched beneath their heels . The last light of the setting sun was in his eyes as he clambered over the mossy hummocks . Behind was the godswood .
The one-eyed outlaw came forward with a long coil of hempen rope . He looped one end around Merrett’s neck, pulled it tight, and tied a hard knot under his ear . “You’d never dare hang a Frey.” Yellow cloak laughed. “My father will pay you. I’m worth a good ransom, more than Petyr, twice as much.” The singer sighed .
Thoros: Did you see him at the wedding, perchance? “The Red Wedding?” Merrett’s skull felt as if it were about to split . “No, don’t, I gave you your answer, you said you’d let me go.” “Go bugger yourself,” the big outlaw replied brusquely. “That Young Wolf never will,” said the one-eyed outlaw.
The Red Wedding was my father’s work, and Ryman’s and Lord Bolton’s . Lothar rigged the tents to collapse and put the crossbowmen in the gallery . “As it happens, you’re wrong there.” Merrett turned to the hooded woman .
Raymund opened her throat from ear to ear and threw her body in the river . The flesh had gone pudding soft in the water and turned the color of curdled milk . Half her hair was gone and the rest had turned as white and brittle as a crone’s .
JOFFREY BARATHEON, the First of His Name, a boy of thirteen years, the eldest son of King Robert I Baratheon and Queen Cersei of House Lannister . SER OSFRYD KETTLEBLACK, youngest brother of Ser Osmund Kettleblack of the Kingsguard, — his sister, PRINCESS MYRCELLA . His grandfather, TYWIN LANNISTER, Lord of Casterly Rock, Warden
TYGETT LANNISTER, formerly squire to King Robert, wounded in the Battle of the Blackwater, near death, died of a pox, — Tygett’s son, SER LANCEL, aka THE IMP, a dwarf . SER BRONN OF THE BLACKWATER, former sellsword, is now serving as bedmaid to Lollys Stokeworth . Tyrek’s infant wife, LADY ERMESANDE HAY
SER KEVAN LANNISTER, master of laws, —LORD PETYR BAELISH, called LITTLEFINGER . —SER ILYN PAYNE, the King’s Justice, a headsman . LORD HALLYNE THE PYROMANCER, the Wisdom of the Guild of Alchemists .
Lord of the Marches named LOTHOR BRUNE for his valor during the Battle of the Blackwater . Lord Paxter’s twin sons mocked as Lord Redwyne’s healer, MAESTER BALLABAR, —ARDRIAN CELTIGAR, the Lord of Claw Isle . SER DONNEL SWANN, heir to Stonehelm, called THE GOOD .
King Joffrey’s banner shows the crowned stag of Baratheon, black on gold, and the lion of Lannister, gold on crimson, combatant . OF House Tully, his direwolf, GREY WIND, —his mother, LADY CATELYN .
Rickon's direwolf, SHAGGYDOG, —Rickon’s companion and protector: —OSHA, a wildling captive who served as a scullion at Winterfell, his half-brother, JON SNOW . His father’s elder brother, BRANDON STARK, slain at the command of King Aerys II Targaryen, died in the Mountains of Dome during Robert’s Rebellion .
OLYVAR FREY, SER WENDEL MANDERLY, second son to the Lord of White Harbor, —PATREK MALLISTER, eldest daughter of Lady Maege Mormont and heir to Bear Island . SER BRYNDEN TULLY, the BLACKFISH, commanding the scouts and outriders, called THE GREATJON .
WYLIS MANDERLY, Lord of White Harbor, —HOWLAND REED . Lord of Greywater Watch, a crannogman . —MORS UMBER, called CROWFOOD, and HOTHER UMber .
Lord of Cerwyn, a boy of fourteen, killed in battle at Winterfell, —his sister, JONELLE CERWYN, maid of two-and-thirty . Leobald’s wife, BERENA of House Hornwood, killed by ironmen on the Stony Shore . The banner of the King in the North has for thousands of years .
STANNIS BARATHEON, the First of His Name, second son of Lord Steffon Baratheon and Lady Cassana of House Estermont, formerly Lord of Dragonstone, —his wife, QUEEN SELYSE of House Florent —PRINCESS SHIREEN . EDRIC STORM, a boy of twelve, bastard son of King Robert by Delena Florent, the queen’s uncle —SER AXELL FLORENT,
SALLADHOR SAAN, of the Free City of Lys, styled himself Prince of the Narrow Sea and Lord of Blackwater Bay, master of the Valyrian and a fleet of sister galleys . —MEIZO MAHR, captain of his galley Shayala’s Dance, —“PORRIDGE” and “LAMPREY,” two gaolers —KHORANE SATHMANTES, Lord of the Tides and Master of Driftmark,
King Stannis has taken for his banner the fiery heart of the Lord of Light . Within the heart is the crowned stag of House Baratheon, in black . The QUEEN ACROSS THE WATER DAENERYS TARGARYEN .
her brother, styling himself King Viserys, the Third of His Name, called THE BEGGAR KING, slain in Vaes Dothrak by Khal Drogo, —DROGO . —KHAL PONO, once ko to Droogo . Mirri Maz Duur, a great khal, never defeated in battle, died of a wound .
KING OF THE ISLES AND THE NORTH BALON GREYJOY, styling himself King of the Iron Islands and the North, King of Salt and Rock, Son of the Sea Wind, and Lord Reaper of Pyke . The banner of Daenerys Targaryen is the banner of Aegon the Conqueror and the dynasty he established: a three-headed dragon, red on black .
Theon’s crew, the men of the Sea Bitch: —URZEN, MARON BOTLEY called FISHWHISKERS, STYGG, GEVIN HARLAW, CADWYLE, —VICTARION, Lord Captain of the Iron Fleet . —AERON, called DAMPHAIR, a priest of the Drowned God .
Lord of the Eyrie, Defender of the Vale, Warden of the East, a sickly boy of eight years . The Arryn sigil is the moon-and-falcon, white, upon a sky-blue field . SER MARWYN BELMORE, captain of guards, —MORD .
Lord Nestor’s daughter, MYRANDA, —MYA STONE, a bastard girl in his service, called BRONZE YOHN, Lord of Runestone, of the senior branch of House Royce, cousin to Lord Nestor . SER ROBAR is a knight of Renly Baratheon’s Rainbow Guard, slain at Storm’s End by Ser Loras Tyrell .
Lord Alester Florent followed the Tyrells in declaring for King Renly, but his brother Ser Axell chose King Stannis, whom he had served for years as castellan of Dragonstone . When Renly died at Storm’s End, the Florents went over with all their strength, the first of Renly’s bannermen to do so . ALESTER FLORENT, Lord of Brightwater, — his wife, LADY MELARA, of House Crane, .
HOUSE FREY Powerful, wealthy, and numerous, the Freys are bannermen to House Tully, but they have not always been diligent in their duty . Lord Hoster Tully always called Lord Walder “the Late Lord Frey” at the onset of the War of the Five Kings, Robb Stark won the allegiance by pledging to wed one of his daughters or granddaughters . Two of Lord Walders’ grandsons were sent to Winterfell to be fostered .
Jeyne Lydden, a girl of five, died in a fall from a horse, —Stevron’s son, AEGON a halfwit called JINGLEBELL . Ser Dafyn Vance —Maegelle’s daughter, MARIANNE’s maiden . Marsella Waynwood, dies in childbed .
SER AENYS, m. Tyana Wylde, died in childbed, —Aenys’s son, AEGON BLOODBORN, an outlaw —Rhaegar's son ROBERT, a boy of thirteen, called WHITE WALDA . Ser Leslyn Haigh —Perriane’s . son, SER DONNEL HAIGH .
Lord Lucias Vypren, —Lythene’s daughter, ELYANA, m. Ser Jon Wylde, Elyana’s son, RICKARD WYLDE, four —Symond’s . son, BRADAMAR, a boy of ten, fostered on Braavos as a ward of Oro Tendyris . Ser Pate of the Blue Fork, Merrett’s
Lady Catelyn Stark, —SER GEREMY, drowned, m. Carolei Waynwood, .Geremy’s son, SANDOR, a boy of twelve, - a squire to Ser Donnel’s daughter, CYNTHEA . Seth's son ROBERT, sixteen, apprenticed to an alchemist in Lys . Raymund’s twin daughters, SERRA and SARRA, mai
Ser Damon Paege, —Whalen’s daughter, MERIANNE, called MERRY, a girl of eleven, -LADY MORYA, m. Ser Flement Brax —Morya’s son, ROBERT BRAX, nine, fostered at Casterly Rock as a page . —Ser PERWYN, their eldest son —SER BENFREY, called DEAF DELLA .
The Lannisters of Casterly Rock remain the principal support of King Joffrey’s claim to the Iron Throne . They boast of descent from Lann the Clever, the legendary trickster of the Age of Heroes .
PRINCESS MYRCELLA BARATHEON, a girl of nine, is a ward of Prince Doran Martell in Dorne, . her son, PRINCE TOMMEN BARATheON, his dwarf son, TYRION, called THE IMP, called HALFMAN, wounded and scarred on the Blackwater . SER KEVAN, Lord Tywin’s eldest brother, —Ser Kevan’s wife, DORNA, of House
SER STAFFORD LANNISTER, brother to the late Lady Joanna, slain at Oxcross, —Ser Stafford’s daughters, CERENNA and MYRIELLE . Lady Shiera Crakehall, his son, SER DAVEN, ...his daughter, LANNA, m. Lord Titus Peake, his household: —MAESTER CREYLEN, healer, tutor, and counselor —VYLARR, captain
SER ROBERT BRAX drowned at the Stone Mill, —REGENARD ESTREN, Lord of Wyndhall, a captive at the Twins . His wife, LADY SYBELL, of House Spicer, . her brother, SER RAYNALD WESTERLING, –JEYNE . —LEWYS LYDDEN . Lord of the Deep Den .
HOUSE MARTELL Dorne was the last of the Seven Kingdoms to swear fealty to the Iron Throne. Blood, custom, and history all set the Dornishmen apart from the other kingdoms.
PRINCESS RHAENYS, wife of Prince Rhaegar Targaryen, slain during the Sack of King’s Landing, —PRINCE AEGON, a babe . —Prince Oberyn’s paramour, ELLARIA SAND .Prince’s bastard daughters, OBARA, NYMERIA,TYENE, SARELLA, ELIA .
Lord Edmyn Tully of Riverrun was one of the first of the river lords to swear fealty to Aegon the Conqueror . The victorious Egon rewarded him by raising House Tully to dominion over all the lands of the Trident . It is a leaping trout, silver, on a field of rippling blue and red.
ROBERT, Lord of the Eyrie and Defender of the Vale, a sickly boy of seven years, —SER EDMURE, his only son, heir to Riverrun . SER HUGO, SER ELLERY, and KIRTH —PATREK MALLISTER, LUCAS BLACKWOOD and SER ROBIN RYGER, his family: —MAESTER VYMAN, counselor, healer, and tutor .
TYTOS BLACKWOOD, Lord of Raventree HOUSE TYRELL The Tyrells rose to power as stewards to the Kings of the Reach . Through the female line, they claim descent from Garth Greenhand, gardener king of the First Men, who wore a crown of vines and flowers and made the land bloom . When Mern IX was slain on the Field of Fire, Harlen Tyrell surrendered Highgarden to Aegon the Con
MARGAERY, their daughter, a widow of fifteen years, betrothed to King Joffrey I Baratheon, —Margaery’s companions and ladies-in-waiting: MEGGA, ALLA, and ELINOR TYRELL, .Elinor’s betrotehed, ALYN AMBROSE, squire —LADY ALYSANNE BULWER . —MEREDYTH CRANE
Lady Elyn Norridge, —Luthor’s son, SER THEODORE, m. Lady Lia . Lady Lysa Meadows, Olymer’s children, RAYMUND and RICKARD . SER VICTOR, slain by the Smiling Knight of the Kingswood Brotherhood .
Appendix Rebels, Rogues, And Sworn Brothers THE SWORN BROTHERS OF THE NIGHT’S WATCH (ranging Beyond the Wall) JEOR MORMONT, called THE OLD BEAR, Lord Commander of the Night’s Watch, —JON SNOW, the Bastard of Winterfell, his steward and squire, lost while scouting the Skirling Pass .
BLACK BERNARR, TIM STONE, ULMER OF KINGSWOOD, GREYFEATHER, GARTH of GREENAWAY, ALAN OF ROSBY, RONNEL HARCLAY, AETHAN, RYLES, MAWNEY, rangers and scouts . SER MALADOR LOCKE, commanding the rearguard, —DONNEL HILL, called SWEET DONNEL, his squire and
BOWEN MARSH, Lord Steward and castellan, —MAESTER AEMON (TARGARYEN), healer and counselor, a blind man, one hundred years old . —SER ALADALE WYNCH, PYPAR, DEAF DICK FOLLARD, HAIRY HAL, BLACK JACK BULWER, ELRON, MATTHAR, rangers —SPARE BOOT, YOUNG HENLY, HAIDER, ALBE
SER ALLISER THORNE, master-at-arms, —JANOS SLYNT, former commander of the City Watch of King’s Landing, briefly Lord of Harrenhal . SER DENYS MALLISTER, Commander, Shadow Tower —his steward and squire, WALLACE MASSEY . THE BROTHERHOOD WITHOUT BANNERS AN OUTLAW FELLOWSHIP .
MERRIT O’MOONTOWN, WATTY THE MILLER, LIKELY LUKE, MUDGE, BEARDLESS DICK, outlaws in his band, —at the Inn of the Kneeling Man: —SHARNA, the innkeep, a cook and midwife . —her husband, called HUSBAND —BOY, an orphan of the war,
JON SNOW, a young raider, Val’s lover, —GRIGG THE GOAT, ERROK, QUORT, BODGER, DEL, BIG BOIL, HEMPEN DAN, HENK THE HELM, LENN, TOEFINGER, STONE THUMBS, raiders . His sons, TOREGG THE TALL, TORWYRD THE TAME, DORMUND, and DRYN, his daughter MUNDA
